We recall the notion of Jordan arc and curve.

> __Definition [jordan-curve].__ A _Jordan arc_ $\Gamma$ is the image of a continuous and injective function $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. We call $\mathbf{x}$ a _parametrization_ of $\Gamma$. For Jordan arcs, we allow the case $a=b$ to allow a single point to be a Jordan arc. A _Jordan curve_ $\Gamma$ is the image of a continuous and injective function $\mathbf{x} : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}^2$. ^def-jordan-curve

Equivalently, a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ is the image of a continuous function $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ with $a < b$ which is injective on $[a, b)$ and $\mathbf{x}(a) = \mathbf{x}(b)$. Note that we do not allow the case $a = b$ for Jordan curve for the following famous theorem to hold.

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ The complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \Gamma$ of a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ is a disjoint union of two connected components $U$ and $V$, where $U$ is bounded and $V$ is unbounded. Moreover, $U$ and $V$ are open and $\partial U = \partial V = X$. ^thm-jordan-curve

We can give orientation to a Jordan arc.

> __Definition [jordan-arc-orientation].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any Jordan arc. Take any parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of $\Gamma$ and call the points $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ the _endpoints_ of $\Gamma$; note that the endpoints are independent of the choice of $\mathbf{x}$. An _oriented Jordan arc_ $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$ is a Jordan arc $\Gamma$ with one endpoint $p$ marked as the _starting point_ and the other endpoint $q$ marked as the _ending point_. A _parametrization_ $\mathbf{x} : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ of oriented  $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$ is a parametrization of the unoriented $\Gamma$ preserving the order $\mathbf{x}(a) = p$ and $\mathbf{x}(b) = q$ of endpoints. ^def-jordan-arc-orientation





We define the _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{I}$ that maps a continuous fubhbb{R}^2$ of bounded variation to a real value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$. It is defined so that if $\mathbf{x}$ parametrizes a Jordan curve in a counterclockwise direction, then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by the curve $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [plane-cross-product].__ For two vectors $p = (a, b)$ and $q = (c, d)$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$, define their cross product $p \times q := ad - b c \in \mathbb{R}$. For a pair $p = (p_1, p_2)$ of bounded measurable functions and a pair $\mu = (\mu_1, \mu_2)$ of finite signed measures on a set $X$, define $p \times \mu := p_1 \, \mu_2 - p_2 \, \mu_1$ as the finite signed measure on $X$. ^def-plane-cross-product

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ For any continuous function $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of bounded variation, define its _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ as ^curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t).
$$

Note that the integral in [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/10. Curves#^def-curve-area-differentiable]] is with respect to the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $\textrm{d} \mathbf{x}(t)$ of $\mathbf{x}$, taken the cross product with $\mathbf{x}(t)$ as in [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/10. Curves#^def-plane-cross-product]]. Writing the coordinates of $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t))$ explicitly, we have $\textrm{d} \mathbf{x} = (\textrm{d} x, \textrm{d} y)$ and one may write $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ more explicitly as
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b R_{\pi/2}(\mathbf{x}(t)) \cdot d\mathbf{x}(t) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t)\, dy(t) - \frac{1}{2} \int_{a}^b y(t)\, dx(t)
$$
instead, where $R_{\pi/2}(x, y) = (-y, x)$ is the rotation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ along the origin by a counterclockwise angle of $\pi/2$.



As this integral is a line integral on $\Gamma$, the value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is determined by $\Gamma$ and is fixed for any parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of $\Gamma$ that preserves the orientation.

> __Definition [curve-area-line-segment].__ For any two points $p, q \in \mathbb{R}^2$, the curve area functional of the oriented line segment from $p$ to $q$ is simply $(p \times q) / 2$; denote this value as $\mathcal{I}(p, q) := (p \times q) / 2$. ^def-curve-area-line-segment

We have the following additivity of $\mathcal{I}$.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-additive].__ Let $\gamma$ be the concatenation of two curves $\alpha$ and $\beta$. That is, the ending point of $\alpha$ matches with the starting point of $\beta$, and $\gamma$ is obtained by following $\alpha$ first then $\beta$ next. Then $\mathcal{I}(\gamma) = \mathcal{I}(\alpha) + \mathcal{I}(\beta)$. ^pro-curve-area-functional-additive

If $\mathbf{x}$ is a closed loop, then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by the curve $\mathbf{x}$. See p170 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern] for the notion of the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-area].__ If $\mathbf{x}$ is a rectifiable parametrization of a Jordan curve oriented counterclockwise (resp. clockwise), then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the exact area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$ (resp. the area with a negative sign). ^pro-curve-area-functional-area

_Proof._ Apply Green's theorem (Theorem 10.43, page 289 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]) on the curve $\mathbf{x}$ and vector field $(P, Q) = (-y, x)$. □

If $\mathbf{x}$ is not closed (that is, $\mathbf{x}(a) \neq \mathbf{x}(b)$), the sofa area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}$, and two line segments connecting the origin to $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ respectively.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ be the real vector space of all continuous maps of bounded variation from $[a, b]$ to $\mathbb{R}^2$. Then the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ on $\mathbf{x} \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ is quadratic. Moreover, for any $\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^* \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ the directional derivative of $\mathcal{I}$ from $\mathbf{x}$ to $\mathbf{x}^*$ evaluates to ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\mathcal{D} \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \left[ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}^*(t) - \mathbf{x}(t))  \times d\mathbf{x} (t) \right] +  \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}(b), \mathbf{x}^*(b)) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}(a), \mathbf{x}^*(a)).
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on arbitrary $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$. Apply [[old/xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get ^eqn-variation-curve
$$
2\, \mathcal{D} \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^*) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}^*, \mathbf{x}) - 2 \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}).
$$
With integration by parts on Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral, we get
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}^*(t) = \mathbf{x} (b) \times \mathbf{x}^*(b) - \mathbf{x}(a) \times \mathbf{x}^*(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}^*(t) \times d\mathbf{x} (t)
$$
or
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^*) = 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}(b), \mathbf{x}^*(b)) - 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}(a), \mathbf{x}^*(a)) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}^*, \mathbf{x}).
$$
Plug this back in [[#^eqn-variation-curve]] and rearrange to get the desired equality. □

> __Theorem [curve-area-convex-variation].__ For any $\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{u}^* \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$, the directional derivative of the curve area functional $\mathcal{J}$ on $\mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ at $\mathbf{u}$ towards $\mathbf{u}^*$ evaluates to ^thm-curve-area-convex-variation
$$
D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}; \mathbf{u}^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{\mathbf{u}^*}(t) - h_\mathbf{u}(t) \right) \, \sigma_{\mathbf{u}}(dt) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(b), v_{\mathbf{u}} (b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(a), v_{\mathbf{u}} (a) \right).
$$

_Proof._ Define the bilinear functional
$$
\mathcal{B}(\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{u}^*) := \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_\mathbf{u}(t) \,\sigma_{\mathbf{u}^*}(dt)
$$
on $\mathcal{U}$. We first show the equality
$$
\mathcal{B}(\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{u}^*) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(t) \times d v_{\mathbf{u}^*}^+(t).
$$
To do so, check $v_K^+ \times \delta v_K^+ = v_K^+ \times v_{t} \sigma_K = h_K \sigma$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]].

and get
$$
D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}; \mathbf{u}^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{\mathbf{u}^*}(t) - h_\mathbf{u}(t) \right) \, \sigma_{\mathbf{u}}(dt) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(b), v_{\mathbf{u}} (b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(a), v_{\mathbf{u}} (a) \right).
$$
□

- Just parametrize $\mathbf{u}$ by $x$ coordinate slice -> Rectifiable parametrization.
	- 
- A Jordan arc has only two parametrizations. The Jordan arc is rectifiable. Bounded variation.