Define the following convex curve segment of the boundary of a convex body $K$ (see ).

> __Definition [convex-curve].__ For any planar convex body $K$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $a < b < a + \pi$, define the segment of the boundary of $K$ ^def-convex-curve
$$
\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} := \left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (a, b)} e_K(t) \cup \left\{ v_K^-(b) \right\}.
$$

The goal of this [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve]] is to show that $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is a rectifiable curve and evaluate its curve area functional.

> __Lemma [convex-curve-triangle].__ Assume arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. If $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$, then $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to the single point $\left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$. If $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$, then $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is contained in a nondegenerate, closed triangle $T$ with three vertices $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b), v_K(a, b)$. Moreover, the followings hold. ^lem-convex-curve-triangle
> 
> 1. The triangle $T$ is the intersection of $H_K(a)$, $H_K(b)$, and the closed half-plane $H'$ with normal angle $t' \in (a, b)$ such that its boundary $l'$ passes through both $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$.
> 2. The set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ intersected with the edge $T \cap l_K(a)$ (resp. $T \cap l_K(b)$) of $T$ is the single point $\left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$ (resp. $v_K^-(b)$).

_Proof._ Define the closed cone $X = H_K(a) \cap H_K(b)$ centered at the point $v_K(a, b)$. Note that the boundary of $X$ is the union of two half-lines $X \cap l_K(a)$ and $X \cap l_K(b)$ meeting at $v_K(a, b)$ in an angle of $b-a \in (0, \pi)$. Also, the face $X \cap l_K(a)$ (resp. $X \cap l_K(b)$) of $X$ contains the vertex $v_K^+(a)$ (resp. $v_K^-(b)$). Consequently, we have $v_K(a, b) = v_K^+(a) + \alpha v_a$ for some $\alpha \geq 0$ and $v_K^-(b) = v_K(a, b) + \beta v_b$ for some $\beta \geq 0$.

First assume $v_K(a, b) \in K$. Then since $K$ is a subset of $X$ containing the center $v_K(a, b)$ of $X$, we have $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b) = v_K(a, b)$ and $e_K(t) = \left\{ v_K(a, b) \right\}$ for all $t \in (a, b)$. So we have $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$ and $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerating to the single point $v_K^+(a)$ as claimed.

Now assume $v_K(a, b) \not\in K$. Then since $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b) \in K$, we have $\alpha, \beta > 0$ and the closed triangle $T$ with vertices $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b), v_K(a, b)$ is nondegenerate. Also, the vector $v_K^+(a) - v_K^-(b) = \alpha v_a + \beta v_b$ is equal to $\tau v_{t'}$ for some $\tau > 0$ and $t' \in (a, b)$. Define $l'$ as the line connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$, and $H'$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l'$ and normal angle $t'$. Then $v_K(a, b) \in H'$ so $T = X \cap H'$ and (1) holds. As $v_K^+(a) + \alpha' v_a$ is not in $K$ for any $\alpha' > 0$ by the definition of $v_K^+(a)$, we get (2).

It remains to show that $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \subseteq T$. Take any $p \in K \setminus T$. Our goal is to show $p \not\in e_K(t)$ for all $t \in (a, b)$. If $t \leq t'$, then the point $p$ is in the cone $H_K(a) \setminus H'$ centered at (but not containing) $v_K^+(a)$, so we have $p \cdot u_t < v_K^+(a) \cdot u_t \leq h_K(t)$ and $p \not\in e_K(t)$. For the case $t \geq t'$, we can do a similar argument with the cone $H_K(b) \setminus H'$. □

> __Lemma [convex-curve-cut].__ Assume the notations and the case $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$ in [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-triangle]]. The set $K' := K \cap T$ is a planar convex body satisfying the followings. ^lem-convex-curve-cut
> 
> 1. For any $t \in (t' - \pi, a]$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = \left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$.
> 2. For any $t \in (a, b)$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = e_K(t)$.
> 3. For any $t \in [b, t' + \pi)$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = \left\{ v_K^-(b) \right\}$.
> 4. The edge $e_{K'}(t' + \pi)$ is the line segment from $v_K^-(b)$ to $v_K^+(a)$.

_Proof._ By [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-triangle]], we have $e_K(t) \subseteq \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \subseteq K' \subseteq K$ for all $t \in (a, b)$. So (2) holds. By (1) of [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-triangle]], we have $s \subseteq K' \subseteq T$ where $s$ is the edge $T \cap l'$ of $T$ from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$ with normal angle $t' + \pi$, and $T$ have normal angle  □

> __Proposition [convex-curve-parametrization].__ The set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ in [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^def-convex-curve]] is a rectifiable Jordan arc from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$. ^pro-convex-curve-parametrization

_Proof._  □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area-functional].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Then the set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ in [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^def-convex-curve]] is a rectifiable Jordan arc from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, and its curve area functional is ^thm-convex-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)}h_K(t)\, \sigma_K(dt).
$$

_Proof._ If $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$, then by [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-triangle]] the set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to a single point $p= v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$. So for all $t \in (a, b)$, the set $e_K(t)$ is equal to $p$, and by XX the measure $\sigma_K$ is zero on the interval $(a, b)$. So the claimed equality holds.

Now assume the case $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$. Define the convex body $K'$ containing $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$ as in [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]]. If $K'$ has empty interior, then by (4) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] $K'$ should be the line segment connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$. So $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is the line segment from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, and 

Now assume that $K'$ have nonempty interior. By (1)-(4) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]], the boundary $\partial K'$ of $K'$ is  $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ followed by the line segment from $v_K^-(b)$ to $v_K^+(a)$. By [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/10. Curves#^pro-curve-area-functional-area]] we have
$$
|K'| = \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_K^-(b), v_K^+(a) \right) .
$$
On the other hand, by XX we have
$$
|K'| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in S^1} h_{K'}(t)\,\sigma_{K'}(dt).
$$
By (1), (2), and (3) of [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Geometric Notions/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] and XX, the measure $\sigma_{K'}$ is zero on $(t' - \pi, a]$ and $[b, t' + \pi)$, and matches with $\sigma_K$ on $(a, b)$. this evaluates to
$$
|K'| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_{K}(t)\,\sigma_{K}(dt) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_K^-(b), v_K^+(a) \right).
$$
By □


> __Theorem [convex-curve-area-variation].__ Fix $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Define $f(K) := \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right)$ as a functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}$. Then $f$ is quadratic on $\mathcal{K}$ and its directional derivative from $K$ to $K^*$ evaluates to ^thm-convex-curve-area-variation
$$
D f(K; K^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{K^*}(t) - h_K(t) \right) \, \sigma_{K}(dt) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_{K^*}^-(b), v_K^- (b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( v_{K^*}^+(a), v_K^+ (a) \right).
$$

_Proof._  □