We prove a generalized version of Mamikon's theorem [@mnatsakanianAnnularRingsEqual1997].

We calculate $v_K(t, t')$ as the following.

> __Lemma [intersection-tangent-lines].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary such that $t' \neq t, t + \pi$. The following calculation holds.  ^lem-intersection-tangent-lines
$$
v_K(t, t') = p_K(t) u_{t} + \left( \frac{p_K(t') - p_K(t) \cos (t' - t)}{\sin (t' - t)} \right)  v_{t}
$$

_Proof._ Because the point $p = v_K(t, t') = l_{K}(t) \cap l_K(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$, we have $p = p_K(t) u_{t} + \beta v_{t}$ for some constant $\beta \in \mathbb{R}$. We use $p \cdot u_{t'} = p_K(t')$ to derive the unique value $\beta$. Write $t' - t$ as $\theta$.
$$
\begin{align*}
p_K(t') &= p_K(t) (u_{t} \cdot u_{t'}) + \beta (v_{t} \cdot u_{t'}) \\
&= p_K(t) \cos \theta + \beta \sin \theta
\end{align*}
$$
This gives $\beta = p_C(t') \csc \theta - p_C(t) \cot \theta$ as claimed and completes the calculation. The value $\alpha$ is continuous on $(-\pi, \pi) \setminus \left\{ 0 \right\}$ by the formula. □

Using [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]], we can show that $v_K(t, t')$ parametrizes the half-lines in $l_K(t)$ emanating from $v_K^{\pm}(t)$.

> __Theorem [tangent-line-parametrization].__ Take any $t \in S^1$ and assume that the width $p_K(t + \pi) + p_K(t)$ of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is strictly positive (e.g. when $K$ has nonempty interior). Define $\mathbf{p} : [t, t + \pi) \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{p}(t) = v_K^+(t)$ and $\mathbf{p}(t') = v_K(t, t')$ for all $t' \in (t, t + \pi)$. Then the followings hold. ^thm-tangent-line-parametrization
> 
> 1. $\mathbf{p}$ is absolutely continuous on any closed and bounded subinterval of $[t, t+ \pi)$.
> 2. $\mathbf{p}(t') = v_K^+(t') + \alpha(t') v_t$ where $\alpha(t) = 0$ and the function $\alpha : [t, t + \pi) \to \mathbb{R}$ is monotonically increasing.
> 3. $\mathbf{p}$ is a parametrization of the half-line emanating from $v_K^+(t)$ in the direction of $v_t$.

_Proof._ The function $\mathbf{p}$ is continuous at $t$ because of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]. The function $\mathbf{p}$ is absolutely continuous on any closed subinterval of $(t, t+ \pi)$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-support-function-lipschitz]]. So the derivative $\mathbf{p}'(u)$ of $\mathbf{p}$ on $u \in (t, t + \pi)$ exists almost everywhere and $\mathbf{p}(u_2) - \mathbf{p}(u_1) = \int_{u_1}^{u_2} \mathbf{p}'(u) \, du$ for every $t < u_1 < u_2 < t + \pi$. Take the limit $u_1 \to t^+$ to obtain $\mathbf{p}(u_2) - \mathbf{p}(t) = \int_{t}^{u_2} \mathbf{p}'(u)\,du$. So $\mathbf{p}$ is absolutely continuous on any closed subinterval of $[t, t + \pi)$ including the endpoint $t$. This verifies (1).

(2) comes from the geometric fact that for every $t < t_1 < t_2 < t + \pi$, the point $v_K(t, t_1)$ lies in the segment connecting $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_K(t, t_2)$.

By taking the limit $u \to t + \pi^-$ in [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]], we have $\alpha(u) \to \infty$ (note that we use the fact that the width $p_K(t + \pi) + p_K(t)$ is positive). Now (3) follows from (1), (2), and $\alpha(u) \to \infty$. □

- Need a consistent expression for Mamikon term
- $\mathcal{M}_K(\mathbf{y}; a, b)$
- $\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}(\mathbf{y}; a, b)$
1. $\mathcal{M}_B\left( \mathbf{l}_{B, \varphi^\textrm{R} + \pi}; \varphi^\textrm{R} + \pi, 3\pi/2 \right)$
2. $\mathcal{M}(\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{y}, a, b)$,
3. $\mathcal{M}_B(a, b; \mathbf{l}_K^{t})$

Define a _Mamikon region_ $\mathcal{M}(\mathbf{u}; \mathbf{y})$ as a curve $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ with some rectifiable curve $\mathbf{y} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, such that it is guaranteed that $\mathbf{y}(t)$ is always on the supporting line $l_\mathbf{u}(t)$ of $\mathbf{u}$.

If the curve $\mathbf{y}$ is the intersection $v_K(-, c)$

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ Let $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ be a convex curve with normal angles in the open interval $(a, b)$ of $S^1$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be any piecewise continuously differentiable function, such that for all $t \in [a, b]$ the point $\mathbf{y}(t)$ is always on the supporting line $l_\mathbf{u}(t)$ of $\mathbf{u}$. Consequently, there is a measurable function $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + \alpha(t)v_t$ for all $t \in [a, b]$. We have the equality ^thm-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) + \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{y}(b), v_\mathbf{u}(b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{u} \right)  - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_{\mathbf{u}}(a) \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{a}^{b} \alpha(t) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ Write $\mathbf{v}(t) := v_\mathbf{u}^+(t)$ for $t \in [a, b)$. Note that both $\mathbf{v}$ and $\mathbf{y}$ are right-continuous by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]], so that $f$ and $\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{v}$ are also right-continuous on $(t_0, t_1]$. So the differential $d(\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{v})$ makes sense as a Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure on $(t_0, t_1]$ ([[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]). We have the chain of equalities
$$
\begin{align*}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{y} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{y} - \mathbf{v} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{v} + \mathrm{d} \left( \mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{v} \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{y} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{y} - \mathbf{v} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{v} + \left( \mathrm{d} \mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{v} + \mathbf{y} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{v}  \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y} - \mathbf{v} \right) \times \mathrm{d}\left( \mathbf{y} + \mathbf{v} \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y} - \mathbf{v} \right) \times \mathrm{d}\left( \mathbf{y} - \mathbf{v} \right)  \\
& = f u_t \times \mathrm{d}\left( f u_t \right) = f u_t \times ( u_t \mathrm{d}f + f v_t \mathrm{d}t) = f^2 dt
\end{align*}
$$
of measures and functions on $t \in (a, b]$. The first equality uses the product rule of differentials ([[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]). The second equality is bilinearity of $\times$ (note that $d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{v}(t) = - \mathbf{v}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ by antisymmetry of $\times$). As we have $d \mathbf{v}(t) = \sigma(dt)v_t$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]] and $\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{v}(t) = f(t)v_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{v}(t)) \times d \mathbf{v}(t) = 0$ which is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalities are basic calculations.

If we integrate the differential formula above on the whole interval $(t_0, t_1]$, the terms $\mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ and $\mathbf{v}(t) \times d \mathbf{v}(t)$ becomes $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y})$ and $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{v})$ by [[old/xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-curve-area-functional]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]] respectively. The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d(\mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{v}(t))$ integrates to the difference $2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - 2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$. So the integral matches twice the left-hand side of the claimed equality in [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]], completing the proof. □

Now we prove a variant of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]] where the curve $\mathbf{y}(t)$ parametrizes a segment of the tangent line $l_K(t_1)$ of $K$. To do so, we need to prepare some notation.

> __Definition [tangent-leg-length].__ Take arbitrary $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Define $\alpha_K(a, b)$ as the unique value $\alpha \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $v_K(a, b) = v_K^+(a) + \alpha v_t$. ^def-tangent-leg-length

> __Corollary [tangent-line-length-linear].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary such that $t' \neq t, t + \pi$. Then $\alpha_K(t, t')$ is linear with respect to $K$. ^cor-tangent-line-length-linear

> __Proposition [tangent-line-parametrization].__ 
> ^pro-tangent-line-parametrization

$\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u})$ is closely related to the area of the following region $\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}$.

> __Definition [convex-curve-mamikon-region].__ For any $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$, define its _Mamikon region_ ^def-convex-curve-mamikon-region
$$
\mathcal{M}_{\mathbf{u}} := \left( H_{\mathbf{u}}(a) \cap H_{\mathbf{u}}(b) \right)  \setminus \bigcap_{t \in [a, b]} H_{\mathbf{u}}(t).
$$

> __Proposition [convex-curve-mamikon-region].__ Let $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ be arbitary. For any convex body $K$ such that $\mathbf{u} = \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$, the set $\bigcap_{t \in S^1 \setminus (a, b)} H_K(t)$ is a disjoint union of $K$ and $\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}$. ^pro-convex-curve-mamikon-region

_Proof._ For any $t \in (a, b)$, we have 
$$(H_{\mathbf{u}}(a) \cap H_{\mathbf{u}}(b)) \setminus H_{\mathbf{u}}(t)$$
by xx. Moreover, for any $t \in S^1 \setminus (a, b)$, the set is contained in  □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area].__ For any convex curve $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$, we have ^thm-convex-curve-area
$$
|\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}| = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}) + \mathcal{I}(v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(b), v_{\mathbf{u}}(a, b)) + \mathcal{I}(v_{\mathbf{u}}(a, b), v_\mathbf{u}^+(a)).
$$