> __Definition [standard-position].__ A moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is in _standard position_ if $h_S(\omega) = h_S(\pi/2) = 1$. ^def-standard-position

With the following proposition, we will assume without loss of generality that a moving sofa $S$ can be put in standard position after some translation.

> __Proposition [standard-position-shape].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, there is a translation of $S$ in standard position which is (i) unique if $\omega < \pi/2$, or (ii) unique up to horizontal translations if $\omega = \pi/2$. ^pro-standard-position-shape

_Proof._ If $\omega < \pi/2$, there is a unique translation of $S$ making contact with the two supporting lines $l(\omega, 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ from below. If $\omega = \pi/2$, there is a unique translation of $S$ making contact with the supporting line $l(\pi/2, 1)$ from below, up to horizontal translations. □

We put $S$ in standard position to ensure $S \subseteq H \cap V_\omega$.

> __Proposition [standard-position-strips].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, we have $S \subseteq H$ and $S \subseteq V_\omega$. ^pro-standard-position-strips

_Proof._ By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa#^pro-moving-sofa-common-subset]], the width of $S$ measured in the directions $u_{\omega}$ and $v_0$ are both at most one. This with $h_S(\omega) = h_S(\pi/2) = 1$ implies $S \subseteq H$ and $S \subseteq V_\omega$. □

Define the intersection $\mathcal{I}$ introduced in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa#^eqn-sofa-intersection]] of [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa]] with the tangent hallways $L_t := L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [monotonization].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Define the intersection ^def-monotonization
$$
\mathcal{I}(S) = H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_S(t).
$$

We will establish that $\mathcal{I}(S)$ is a moving sofa containing $S$ in this [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa]].

> __Theorem [monotonization].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, $\mathcal{I}(S)$ is a moving sofa with the same rotation angle $\omega$ containing $S$ in standard position. ^thm-monotonization

With [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization]], we will call any sofa of form $\mathcal{I}(S)$ a _monotone sofa_. By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization]] it suffices to consider monotone sofas for the moving sofa problem.

> __Definition [monotone-sofa].__ Define a _monotone sofa_ as the intersection $\mathcal{I}(S)$ of some moving sofa $S$ in standard position. ^def-monotone-sofa

# Proof of [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization]]

> __Proposition [monotonization-contains-sofa].__ For any moving sofa $S$ in standard position, $S \subseteq \mathcal{I}(S)$. ^pro-monotonization-contains-sofa

_Proof._ Assume rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. We have $S \subseteq H \cap V_\omega$ by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^pro-standard-position-strips]]. For all $t \in [0, \omega]$, we have $S \subset L_t$ for some hallway $L_t$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$ from [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa#^pro-moving-sofa-common-subset]], and then $S \subseteq L_S(t)$ by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-tangent-hallway-contains]]. □

We prepare the following terminologies.

> __Definition [closed-in-direction].__ Say that a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ is _closed in the direction of_ vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if, for any $x \in X$ and $\lambda \geq 0$, we have $x + \lambda v \in X$. ^def-closed-in-direction

> __Definition [line-half-plane-directions].__ Any line $l$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ divides the plane into two half-planes. Assuming $l$ is not parallel to the $y$-axis, call the _left side_ (resp. _right side_) of $l$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l$ containing the point $- Nu_0$ (resp. $Nu_0$) for sufficiently large $N$. ^def-line-half-plane-directions

> __Definition [cap-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Define the set ^def-cap-sofa
$$
\mathcal{C}(S) := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t).
$$

We prepare useful lemmas on $\mathcal{C}(S)$.

> __Proposition [cap-contains-sofa].__ For any moving sofa $S$ in standard position, $S \subseteq \mathcal{I}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$. ^pro-cap-contains-sofa

_Proof._ By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^pro-monotonization-contains-sofa]] and $L_S(t) \subset Q_S^+(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$. □

> __Definition [set-j].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the set $J_\omega := [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$. ^def-set-j

> __Lemma [cap-same-support-function].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Then the support functions $h_X$ of the sets $X = S, \mathcal{I}(S), \mathcal{C}(S)$ are the same on the set $J_\omega$. Consequently, for any $t \in [0, \omega]$, the tangent hallways $L_X(t)$ on the sets $X = S, \mathcal{I}(S), \mathcal{C}(S)$ are the same. ^lem-cap-same-support-function

_Proof._ We have $S \subseteq \mathcal{I}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ . So it remains to show $h_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t) \leq h_S(t)$ for every $t$ in $J_\omega$ to show that $h_X$s on $J_\omega$ are the same. By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^pro-cap-contains-sofa]] we have $S \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq H_S(t)$ and thus $h_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t) \leq h_S(t)$ as we want. To show that the tangent hallways $L_X(t)$ are the same, observe that $L_X(t)$ depends solely on $t, h_X(t), h_X(t + \pi/2)$ by its [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway]]. □

We establish the connectedness of $\mathcal{I}(S)$ which is the hardest part.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-connected].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, $\mathcal{I}(S)$ is connected. ^thm-monotonization-is-connected

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary point $p$ in $\mathcal{I}(S)$. We will show that $\mathcal{I}(S)$ is connected by finding a line segment $s_\theta$ inside $\mathcal{I}(S)$ that connects $p$ to the connected subset $S$ of $\mathcal{I}(S)$. Here $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ is a value that will be fixed later. Letting $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ arbitrary as of now, define the line $l_\theta$ passing through $p$ in the direction of $u_\theta$ and let $s_\theta := l_\theta \cap \mathcal{I}(S)$. Then $s_\theta$ is a subset of $\mathcal{I}(S)$ containing $p$. Our goal now is to show that $s_\theta$ is a line segment that overlaps with $S$ for some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$.

We first show that $s_\theta$ is a nonempty line segment. Define the set $X := \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t)$. By plugging $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-rotating-hallway-parts]] to [[#^def-monotonization]], we have $\mathcal{I}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S) \setminus X$. The set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is a convex body containing $S$ by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^pro-standard-position-strips]], and the set $X$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$ ([[#^def-closed-in-direction]]) since each $Q_S^-(t)$ is. Now $s_\theta$ is a line segment because it is the line segment $l_\theta \cap \mathcal{C}(S)$ subtracted by the half-line $l_\theta \setminus X$. Our goal now is to find some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ such that $l_\theta$ meets $S$, so that $s_\theta$ connects $p$ to $S$ inside $\mathcal{I}(S)$.

Assume by contradiction that for every $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$. Because the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, the set $S$ is inside the set $Y = \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \bigcup_{\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]} l_\theta$. Note that $Y$ has exactly two connected components $Y_L$ and $Y_R$ on the left and the right side of the lines $l_\theta$ respectively. We will find a point at each $S \cap Y_L$ and $S \cap Y_R$, reaching the contradiction as $S$ is connected.

By [[#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], we have $l_{\mathcal{I}(S)}(t) = l_S(t)$ for every $t \in J_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$. Because $p \in \mathcal{I}(S)$, the line $l_{\pi/2}$ passing through $p$ is on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$. So any point of $e_S(0)$ is on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$, and should be in $S \cap Y_R$. Likewise, as $p \in \mathcal{I}(S)$, the line $l_{\omega}$ passing through $p$ is on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$. So any point of $e_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ is on the left side of $l_\omega$, and should be in $S \cap Y_L$. This establishes the contradiction we wanted, and we finally prove that $\mathcal{I}(S)$ is connected. □

We are now ready to prove [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization]]. 

_Proof._ (of [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization]]) We first show that $S' := \mathcal{I}(S)$ is a moving sofa. As $S'$ is connected by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]], it suffices to show that $S'$ can move continuously inside $L$ from $H_L$ to $V_L$ with rotation angle $\omega$. See the movement of $L_S(t) = L_{S'}(t)$ containing $S'$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^lem-cap-same-support-function]]) in persepctive of the hallway, to find a movement of $S'$ inside $L$. In particular, $S' \subseteq H$ so the horizontal side of $L_{S'}(0)$ (corresponding to $H_L$ of $L$) contains $S'$. Also, $S' \subseteq V_\omega$ so the vertical side of $L_{S'}(\omega)$ (corresponding to $V_L$ of $L$) contains $S'$. Since $h_{S'}$ is continuous, this movement of $S'$ is also continuous.

That $S'$ have rotation angle $\omega$ comes from that $L_{S'}(\omega)$ is rotated counterclockwise by $\omega$. That $S'$ contains $S$ comes from [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^pro-monotonization-contains-sofa]]. That $S'$ is in standard position comes from $S \subseteq S' \subseteq H \cap V_\omega$. □