> __Definition [cap-space].__ Define the _space of caps_ $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ with the _rotation angle_ $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ as the collection of all caps $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$. ^def-cap-space

From now on, we will _always_ understand a monotone sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ by its cap $K := \mathcal{C}(S)$ in $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$. By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]], the monotone sofa $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ can be recovered from its cap $K$. In other words, the collection of all monotone sofas $S$ with the rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ embeds into $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ by taking the cap $\mathcal{C}(S) \in \mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$. That is, the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ extends the space of all montone sofas with rotation angle $\omega$.

Define the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A}_\omega$ on $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ extending the area of a monotone sofa $S$.

> __Definition [sofa-area-functional].__ For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, define the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A}_\omega : \mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c} \to \mathbb{R}$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ as $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. ^def-sofa-area-functional

> __Theorem [sofa-area-functional].__ For any cap $K := \mathcal{C}(S)$ of a monotone sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$, we have $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) = |S|$. ^thm-sofa-area-functional

_Proof._ An immediate consequence of [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] and [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]]. □

We will change the moving sofa problem to the maximization of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}_\omega$ on cap space $\mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$. But recall that as in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^rem-niche-not-in-cap]], not all cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ is the cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ of a monotone sofa $S$. So it is not obvious that the maximizer $K_\omega$ of $\mathcal{A}_\omega$ will correspond to a monotone sofa $S_\omega$ of maximum area with a fixed rotation angle $\omega$. This will be established at the very end ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/15. Rotation Angle of a Sofa/10. Main Proof#^thm-sofa-area-functional-summary]]). 