Here, we will define the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ $\mathrm{d} f$ of a real-valued function $f$ ([[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Convex Bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]]), so that we can state informal calculations involving differentials like $d(t^2) = 2t \, dt$ rigorously, like $\textrm{d}(t^2) = 2t \, \textrm{d}t$. Unlike differentials $df$, the measure $\mathrm{d} f$ has a clear interpretation and also works for functions $f$ that may not be continuous. We will use this to prove equalities on general convex bodies.

All measurable functions in this and upcoming work will be bounded and have some compact interval domain $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$. All measures $\mu$ used in this work will be finite signed Borel measures on some compact interval $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$. That is, for any Borel subset $X$ of $I$, the value $\mu(X)$ is real and not $\pm \infty$.

We will use the following notations. 

> __Definition [function-measure-mult].__ For any bounded measurable function $f$ and finite signed Borel measure $\mu$ on a compact interval $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$, denote the scalar multiplication of $f$ and $\mu$ as $f \, \mu$ which is defined as $f \mu(X) = \int_{X} f \, d \mu$. Note that $f \, \mu$ is also a finite signed Borel measure.
> 
> If $f$ is a _pair_ $(f_1, f_2)$ of bounded measurable function and $\mu$ is a finite signed Borel measure, the notion $f \, \mu$ denotes the pair $(f_1 \, \mu, f_2 \, \mu)$.
> 
> If $f$ is a bounded measurable function and $\mu = (\mu_1, \mu_2)$ is a pair of finite signed Borel measure, then the notion $f \, \mu$ denotes $(f \, \mu_1, f \, \mu_2)$. ^def-function-measure-mult

Recall the following standard real analysis definition.

> __Definition [bounded-variation].__ A function $f : I \to \mathbb{R}$ on a closed interval $I := [a, b]$ is of _bounded variation_ if there is an absolute constant $C$ such that, for any partition $a = t_0 < t_1 < \dots < t_n = b$ of $I$, the sum $\sum_{i=1}^n \left| f(t_i) - f(t_{i-1}) \right|$ is bounded from above by $C$. ^def-bounded-variation

> __Definition [bounded-variation-half-open].__ Say that a function $f : I \to \mathbb{R}$ on a half-open interval $I := (a, b]$ is of _bounded variation_ if the domain of $f$ can be extended to a continuous function on the closure $\overline{I}$ of $I$, and $f$ on $\overline{I}$ is of bounded variation. ^def-bounded-variation-half-open

We use the notation $\textrm{d} f$ to denote the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ of $f$ defined as the following.

> __Definition [lebesgue-stieltjes].__ For any right-continuous $f : I \to \mathbb{R}$ on a half-open interval $I := (a, b]$ of bounded variation, define the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ $\mathrm{d} f$ of $f$ on $I$ as the unique finite signed Borel measure such that $\mathrm{d} f((a, t]) = f(t) - f(a)$ for all $t \in I$. ^def-lebesgue-stieltjes

The existence of such a measure $\mathrm{d} f$ in [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Convex Bodies/05. Notations#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] is guaranteed by restricting Theorem 4.3, page 5 of [@revuz2013continuous] to a finite closed interval.

We use [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Convex Bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] to state informal calculations of differentials like $d(t^2) = 2t \, dt$ rigorously like $\textrm{d}(t^2) = 2t \, \textrm{d}t$. Here, the letter $t$ is taken as the variable parametrizing the domain $I$ which can be any compact interval of $\mathbb{R}$. So the followings hold.

- The measure $\textrm{d}(t^2)$ is the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of the function $f(t) = t^2$. So in particular, the measure $\textrm{d}(t^2)$ on an interval $[0, x] \subseteq I$ is equal to $x^2$.
- The measure $\textrm{d} t$ is the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of the function $g(t) = t$. That is, $\textrm{d} t$ is the usual Lebesgue measure on $I$. So $2t \, \textrm{d}t$ is the measure on $I$ with density function $t \mapsto 2t$.

Unlike differentials, [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Convex Bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] works for non-continuous functions as well. Let $f(x)$ be the step function defined as $f(x) = 1$ for $x \geq 0$ and $f(x) = 0$ for $x < 0$. Then $\textrm{d}f$ is the point measure with 

There is a subtle notational difference between the differential $d f$ and the measure $\mathrm{d} f$ that we clarify here. Assume that a finite interval $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$ is the domain we parametrize by the variable $t \in I$. The differential $dt$ is then considered as an intuitive (but not rigorous) notation for the infinitesimal subinterval of $I$ containing $t$. The measure $\mathrm{d} f$, however, is a well-defined finite singed measure on $I$. Now:

1. Equalities of differentials $d \alpha = d \beta$ rigorously means that, for any bounded integrable function $f$, 
2. Any measurable function $f : I \to \mathbb{R}$ on $I$ takes the variable $t$ (not the differential $dt$).
3. Any measure $\mu$ on $I$ takes the differential $dt$ (not the variable $t$) as the input in the integral $\int_{t \in I} f(t) \, \mu(dt)$ of $f$ with respect to $\mu$.
4. 

Let us integrate a bounded measurable function $g : I \to \mathbb{R}$ with respect to the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $\textrm{d} f$ of some right-continuous $f$ of bounded variation. Then the integral
$$
\int_{t\in X} g(t) \, \mathrm{d}f(dt) = \int_{t\in X} g(t) \, df(t) = \int_{X} g \, df
$$
is the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral_ of $g$ with respect to $f$. 

3. 

The map $f \mapsto \textrm{d} f$ is linear like differentials would do.

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes-sum].__ For any real values $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$, finite closed interval $I$, and right-continuous $f, g : I \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation, we have $\textrm{d} (a f + b g) = a \, \textrm{d} f + b \, \textrm{d} g$ as signed measures on $I$. ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-sum

The product rule $d(fg) = g \, df + f \, dg$ of differentials is more subtle as we allow $f$ and $g$ to be not continuous. We need to require one of $f$ or $g$ to be continuous.

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes-product].__ For any finite closed interval $I$, and right-continuous $f, g : I \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation, if one of $f$ or $g$ is continuous then the equality $\mathrm{d}(fg) = g \, \mathrm{d}f + f \, \mathrm{d}g$ holds. ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-product

_Proof._ Assume without loss of generality that $f$ is continuous. Write $I = [a, b]$. It suffices to show that both sides, as measures on $I$, agree on the subset $\left\{ a \right\}$ and $(a, x]$ of $I$ for all $x \in I$. By [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Convex Bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] with $t = a$, the values of both sides on the singleton $\left\{ a \right\}$ are equal to zero. Now take any $x \in I$. By Proposition 4.5, page 6 of [@revuzContinuousMartingalesBrownian1999], we have the integration by parts
$$
\int_{t \in (a, x]} g(t)\, df(t) + \int_{t \in (a, x]} f(t-) \, dg(t) = f(x) g(x) - f(a) g(a)
$$
where $f(t-)$ denotes the _left limit_ of $f$ at $t$. However, as our $f$ is continuous the values $f(t-)$ and $f(t)$ match. So the both measures $\mathrm{d}(fg)$ and $g \, \mathrm{d}f + f \, \mathrm{d}g$ agree on the set $(a, x]$, completing the proof. □