In this [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Convex Bodies/10. Surface Area Measure]], we will prove an that relates the vertices $v_K^{\pm}(t)$ of a convex body $K$ to its surface area measure $\sigma_K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure].__ Consider $\mu_t$ as the function $\mu(t) := \mu_t$ so that $\mu : I \to \mathbb{R}^2$. For every interval $I = (a, b]$ in $S^1$ of length $\leq 2\pi$, we have ^thm-boundary-measure
$$
\mathrm{d} v_K^{+} = \mu \, \sigma
$$
> where both sides are _pairs_ of Borel measures on $I$. Consequently, we have
$$
\int_{t \in I} p(t) \, \mathrm{d} v_K^+(dt) = \int_{t \in I} \mu_t\,\sigma(dt)
$$
> for any Borel function $p$ on $X$.

> __Definition [measure-restriction].__ For any measure $\sigma$ on $S^1$ and a Borel subset $A$ of $S^1$, define the _restriction_ $\sigma|_A$ of $\sigma$ to $A$ as the measure on $S^1$ defined as $\sigma|_A(X) = \sigma(A \cap X)$. ^def-measure-restriction

_Proof._ First we observe that the equality holds when $K$ is a polygon. In this case, for every $t$ the value $\sigma_K(t)$ is nonzero if and only if it measures the length of a proper edge $e_K(t)$. So the right-hand side measures the sum of all vectors from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ along the proper edges $e_K(t)$ with angles $t \in (t_1, t_2]$. The sum in the right-hand side is then the vector from $v_K^+(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$, justifying the equality for polygon $K$.

$S_1(K, -)$ or $S_K$ in p464 of [[@schneider_2013]].

Now we prove the equality for general $K$. As in the proof of Theorem 8.3.3, p466 of [[@schneider_2013]], we can take a series $K_1, K_2, \dots$ of polygons converging to $K$ in the Hausdorff distance such that $e_{K_n}(t_i) = e_{K}(t_i)$ for all $n = 1, 2, \dots$ and $i = 1, 2$. In particular, we have $v_{K_n}^{\pm}(t_i) = v_{K}^{\pm}(t_i)$ and $\sigma_{K_n}(\{t_i\}) = \sigma_{K}(\{t_i\})$ for all $n = 1, 2, \dots$ and $i = 1, 2$. By Theorem 4.2.1, p212 of [[@schneider_2013]], the measures $\sigma_{K_n}$ converge to $\sigma_K$ weakly as $n \to \infty$.

Define $U$ as the open set $S^1 \setminus \left\{ t_1, t_2 \right\}$ of $S$, and $V$ as the open interval $(t_1, t_2)$ of $S^1$. Define $\mu_n$ and $\mu$ as the restriction of $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ to $U$, then $\mu_n$ converges to $\mu$ weakly as $n \to \infty$ because $\sigma_{K_n}(\{t_i\}) = \sigma_{K}(\{t_i\})$ for $i = 1, 2$. Define $\lambda_n$ and $\lambda$ as the restriction of $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ to $V$. We want to prove that $\lambda_n \to \lambda$ weakly as $n \to \infty$. Take any continuity set $X$ of $\lambda$ so that $\lambda(\partial X) = 0$ and thus $\mu(\partial X \cap V) = 0$. Because $\partial(X \cap V) \subseteq (\partial X \cap V) \cup \partial V$, and both $\mu(\partial X \cap V)$ and $\mu(\partial V)$ are zero, the set $X \cap V$ is a continuity set of $\mu$. So $\mu_n(X \cap V) \to \mu(X \cap V)$ and thus $\lambda_n(X) \to \lambda(X)$ as $n \to \infty$. This completes the proof that $\lambda_n \to \lambda$ weakly as $n \to \infty$.

We finally take the limit $n \to \infty$ to the equality
$$
v_{K_n}^+(t_2) - v_{K_n}^+(t_1) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} \nu_t \, \sigma_{K_n}(dt)
$$
for polygons $K_n$. The left-hand side is equal to $v_K^+(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1)$ by the way how we took $K_n$. The right-hand side is equal to
$$
(v_{K_n}^+(t_2) - v_{K_n}^-(t_2)) + \int_{t \in S^1} \nu_t \, \lambda_n(dt)
$$
and by $v_{K_n}^{\pm}(t_i) = v_{K}^{\pm}(t_i)$ and the weak convergence $\lambda_n \to \lambda$, the expression converges to
$$
(v_{K}^+(t_2) - v_{K}^-(t_2)) + \int_{t \in S^1} \nu_t \, \lambda(dt) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} \nu_t\, \sigma_{K}(dt)
$$
thus completing the proof for general $K$. □

[[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] has the following concise representation in differentials via the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure. Note that $\nu_t = (-\sin t, \cos t)$ is a unit vector, and $v_K^+(t)$ is the vertex of $K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-differential].__ We have $dv_K^+(t) = \nu_t \sigma_K(dt)$. ^thm-boundary-measure-differential

That is, if we write the coordinates of $v_K^+(t)$ as $(x(t), y(t))$, then the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dx$ and $dy$ of $x(t)$ and $y(t)$ are $-\sin t \cdot \sigma_K(dt)$ and $\cos t \cdot \sigma_K(dt)$ respectively. Note that $dx$ and $dy$ are well-defined because $v_K^+(t)$ is of bounded variation ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation]]) and right-continuous ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^cor-vertex-right-continuous]]).

_Proof._ (of [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]]) Observe that the two pairs of measures $dv_K^+(t)$ and $\nu_t \sigma_K(dt)$ agree on any half-open intervals of $S^1$ by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. Appeal to [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^lem-measure-interval-uniqueness]] to show the equality. □

Surface area measure at a single point $t$ measures the length of the edge $e_K(t)$.

> __Theorem [surface-area-singleton].__ $\sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\})$ is equal to the length of the edge $e_K(t)$. Moreover, $v_K^+(t) = v_K^-(t) + \sigma_K( \left\{ t \right\} ) \nu_t$. ^thm-surface-area-singleton

_Proof._ Let $t_2 = t$ and send $t_1 \to t^-$ in [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. Then by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]] we get the equation $v_K^+(t) = v_K^-(t) + \sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\}) \nu_t$. □

> __Proposition [surface-area-singleton-almost-everywhere].__ Except for a countable number of values of $t \in S^1$, we have $v_K^-(t) = v_K^+(t)$.
> ^pro-surface-area-singleton-almost-everywhere

_Proof._ Since $\sigma_K$ is a finite measure on $S^1$, $\sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\})$ is zero except for a countable number of values of $t \in S^1$. Apply [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-singleton]] to such $t$ with $\sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\}) = 0$. □

We also have the following variants of [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] that work for closed and open intervals of $S^1$ respectively.

> __Corollary [boundary-measure-closed].__ For every interval $[t_1, t_2]$ in $S^1$ of length $< 2\pi$, we have the following equality. ^cor-boundary-measure-closed
$$
v_K^+(t_2) - v_K^-(t_1) = \int_{t \in [t_1, t_2]} \nu_t \, \sigma_K(dt)
$$

_Proof._ Add [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-singleton]] with $t=t_1$ to [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. □

> __Corollary [boundary-measure-open].__ For every interval $(t_1, t_2)$ in $S^1$ of length $\leq 2\pi$, we have the following equality. ^cor-boundary-measure-open
$$
v_K^-(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} \nu_t \, \sigma_K(dt)
$$

_Proof._ Subtract [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-singleton]] with $t=t_2$ from [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. □