TODO: we need to clarify what does it mean by an interval $[a, b]$ in $S^1$. The numbers $a$ and $b$ are representatives in $\mathbb{R}$ such that they satisfy $0 \leq b - a \leq 2\pi$.

# Construction

> __Definition [boundary-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, define its _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ on $\mathbb{R}$ as $\beta_K(dt) = p_K(t) \cdot dt + d \left( \partial^+p_K(t) \right)$. That is, $\beta_K$ is the signed measure which is the addition of the measure $X \mapsto \int_X p_K(t) \, dt$ and the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of $\partial^+p_K$.  ^def-boundary-measure

_Proof._ We use the [[01. Measure Theory#^def-function-measure-multiplication|multiplication of a function and a measure]] and that $p_K$ is [[03. Convex Bodies#^thm-support-function-lipschitz|bounded]] to construct $p_K(t) \cdot dt$. We use that $\partial^+p_K(t)$ is both [[03. Convex Bodies#^cor-right-differentiation-right-continuous|right-continuous]] and [[03. Convex Bodies#^cor-right-differentiation-locally-bounded-variation|locally bounded-variation]] to construct the [[01. Measure Theory#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes-measure|Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]. □

This measure is called as the _surface area measure_ for general $n$-dimensional convex bodies. With the following theorem we won't differentiate $\beta_k$ as a measure on $\mathbb{R}$ and $S^1 = \mathbb{R} / 2\pi \mathbb{R}$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-periodic].__ For any integer $n \in \mathbb{Z}$ and Borel measurable $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}$, we have $\beta_K(X + 2 \pi n) = \beta_K(X)$. Consequently, $\beta_K$ quotients to a measure on $S^1$. ^thm-boundary-measure-periodic

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-vertex].__ For any convex body $K$, the boundary measure $\beta_K$ satisfies the following for any $t, t' \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t' > t$. ^thm-boundary-measure-vertex
$$
v_K^+(t') - v_K^+(t) = \int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \beta_K(ds)
$$

_Proof._ By expanding the definition [[#^def-boundary-measure]] of $\beta_K$, we get the following.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, \beta_K(ds) & = \int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s p_K(s) \, ds + \int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, d\left( \partial^+ p_K(s) \right)
\end{align}
$$
Applying [[01. Measure Theory#^thm-integration-by-parts]] to the last term with $F(t) = \partial^+p_K(t)$ and $G(t)$ as the coordinates of $v_t$, we get this integration by parts.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, d\left( \partial^+ p_K(s) \right) = v_{t'} \partial^+p_K(t') - v_t \partial^+p_K(t) - \int_{s \in (t, t']} \partial^+p_K(s) (-u_s) \, ds
\end{align}
$$
Another integration by parts is executed in the last term.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} \partial^+p_K(s) u_s \, ds & = p_K(t')u_{t'} - p_K(t)u_t - \int_{s \in (t, t']} p_K(t) v_s\,ds
\end{align}

$$
Apply all the integrations by parts to the first equation, and we get the following.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, \beta_K(ds) & = v_{t'} \partial^+p_K(t') - v_t \partial^+p_K(t) + p_K(t')u_{t'} - p_K(t)u_t  \\
& = v_K^+(t') - v_K^+(t)
\end{align}
$$
This completes the proof. □

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-nonnegative].__ For any convex body $K$, its boundary measure $\beta_K$ is non-negative. ^thm-boundary-measure-nonnegative

_Proof._ We only need to show that $\beta_K$ is non-negative near any $t \in\mathbb{R}$. Take the interval $I = \left( t - \pi/4, t + \pi/4 \right)$. Consider the function $f(u) = \cos(u - t)$ on $I$. Both $f$ and $1/f$ are bounded continous functions on $I$. Also for any $a, b \in I$ such that $a < b$, $\int_{(a, b]} f(u) \beta_K(du) = \left( v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) \right) \cdot v_t$ is nonnegative by [[03. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-monotone]]. So $f \cdot \beta_K$ is nonnegative on $I$, and $(1/f) \cdot f \cdot \beta_K = \beta_K$ is also nonnegative on $I$. □

> __Definition [convex-body-perimeter].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Define $B_K = \beta_K\left( (0, 2 \pi] \right)$ as the _perimeter_ of $K$. By [[#^thm-boundary-measure-periodic]] we also observe that $B_K = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \right)$ for any $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ as well. ^def-convex-body-perimeter

_Why_ is $B_K$ called the perimeter of $K$ will be justified in the next chapters. For now you can think of it as just a value assigned to $K$.

# Arc-length Parametrization of $\partial K$

We define the arc-length parametrization of the boundary $\partial K$ with length $B_K$. From now on, we fix an arbitrary convex body $K$ and the starting angle $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$.

> __Definition [parametrization-formal].__ Define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the following function. ^def-parametrization-formal
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s) := v_K^+(t) - \left( \beta_K\left( (a, t] \right) - s \right) v_t
$$
> Here $t \in [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ is the minimum of $\left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (a, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$.

_Proof._ To see the well-definedness of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$, we only need to observe that for any $s \in [0, B_K]$ the minimum $t$ of $X = \left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (a, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$ is well-defined. As $\beta((a, t])$ is monotonically increasing by [[^thm-boundary-measure-nonnegative]], zero at $t=a$, and $B_K$ at $t=a + 2\pi$ the minimum $t$ is well-defined. □

> __Theorem [parametrization-continuous].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is continuous and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(B) = \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(0) = v_K^+(t_0)$. ^thm-parametrization-continuous

> __Theorem [parametrization-arc-length].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is an arc-length parametrization. ^thm-parametrization-arc-length

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-support].__ The support of any convex body $K$ ([[03. Convex Bodies#^def-convex-body-support]]) is the support of the measure $\beta_K$. ^thm-boundary-measure-support

# Goal 

TODO: fill in the remaining details for the following theorem.

> __Theorem [boundary-segment-parametrization].__ For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}(s)$ is the arc-length parametrization from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ of the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$. ^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization