TODO: we need to clarify what does it mean by an interval $[a, b]$ in $S^1$. The numbers $a$ and $b$ are representatives in $\mathbb{R}$ such that they satisfy $0 \leq b - a \leq 2\pi$.

# Construction

> __Definition [boundary-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, define its _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ on $\mathbb{R}$ as $\beta_K(dt) = p_K(t) \cdot dt + d \left( \partial^+p_K(t) \right)$. That is, $\beta_K$ is the signed measure which is the addition of the measure $X \mapsto \int_X p_K(t) \, dt$ and the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of $\partial^+p_K$.  ^def-boundary-measure

This measure is called as the _surface area measure_ for general $n$-dimensional convex bodies.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-vertex].__ For any convex body $K$, the boundary measure $\beta_K$ satisfies the following for any $t, t' \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t' > t$. ^thm-boundary-measure-vertex
$$
v_K^+(t') - v_K^+(t) = \int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \beta_K(ds)
$$

_Proof._ By expanding the definition [[#^def-boundary-measure]] of $\beta_K$, we get the following.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, \beta_K(ds) & = \int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s p_K(s) \, ds + \int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, d\left( \partial^+ p_K(s) \right)
\end{align}
$$
Applying [[01. Measure Theory#^thm-integration-by-parts]] to the last term with $F(t) = \partial^+p_K(t)$ and $G(t)$ as the coordinates of $v_t$, we get this integration by parts.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, d\left( \partial^+ p_K(s) \right) = v_{t'} \partial^+p_K(t') - v_t \partial^+p_K(t) - \int_{s \in (t, t']} \partial^+p_K(s) (-u_s) \, ds
\end{align}
$$
Another integration by parts is executed in the last term.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} \partial^+p_K(s) u_s \, ds & = p_K(t')u_{t'} - p_K(t)u_t - \int_{s \in (t, t']} p_K(t) v_s\,ds
\end{align}

$$
Apply all the integrations by parts to the first equation, and we get the following.
$$
\begin{align}
\int_{s \in (t, t']} v_s \, \beta_K(ds) & = v_{t'} \partial^+p_K(t') - v_t \partial^+p_K(t) + p_K(t')u_{t'} - p_K(t)u_t  \\
& = v_K^+(t') - v_K^+(t)
\end{align}
$$
This completes the proof. □

# Arc-length Parametrization of $\partial K$

> __Definition [parametrization-formal].__ Let $K$ be any convex body and $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ be any angle. Let $B = \beta_K\left( (0, 2\pi] \right)$. Define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the following function. ^def-parametrization-formal


From now on, we fix an arbitrary convex body $K$ and the starting angle $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$.

> __Theorem [parametrization-continuous].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is continuous and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(B) = \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(0) = v_K^+(t_0)$. ^thm-parametrization-continuous

> __Theorem [parametrization-arc-length].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is an arc-length parametrization. ^thm-parametrization-arc-length


> __Theorem [boundary-measure-support].__ The support of any convex body $K$ ([[03. Convex Bodies#^def-convex-body-support]]) is the support of the measure $\beta_K$. ^thm-boundary-measure-support
