Here we develop a formalization of Mamikon's Theorem.

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary angles such that $t_0 < t_1 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be some parametrization of a rectifiable curve with a measurable function $f : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t)v_t$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_1]$. Then the following holds. ^thm-mamikon
$$
I(\mathbf{y}) + I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}) + I\left( v_K^+(t_0), \mathbf{y}(t_0) \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{a}^{b} f(t) ^2 \, dt
$$

TODO: add a figure at least to talk about what this formula actually means.

Assume the same setup as [[#^thm-mamikon]]. Before moving to the real proof, we informally verify the equation using differentials. For this derivation only, we will write $v^+_K(t)$ as $\mathbf{x}(t)$ for simplicity, so that $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is the parametrization of the arc $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ with respect to $t$. Assume also momentarily that $\mathbf{x}(t)$ has a continuous differentiation. Then [[#^thm-mamikon]] is a rigorous, integrated version of the following calculation. 

$$
\begin{align}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + d \left( \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + \left( d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) + \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{x} (t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = f(t) u_t \times d\left( f(t) u_t \right) = f(t) u_t \times ( u_t df(t) + f(t) v_t dt) = f(t)^2 dt
\end{align}
$$

The first two equalities are calculus. As the tangent vector of $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is $d \mathbf{x}(t) = \beta(dt)v_t$, and $\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) = f(t)v_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t)) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) = 0$. This is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalitis are calculus. When we integrate the first formula, $\mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ becomes $2I(\mathbf{y})$, $\mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ becomes $2I(\mathbf{x})$, and $d(\mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t))$ becomes the difference $I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$.

This calculation is informal, but will motivate the following rigorous proof of [[#^thm-mamikon]].

_Proof._ Here, let $\mathbf{x} = v_K^+$ be an alias of $v_K^+ : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. Rearrange the terms in the left-hand side and expand the formula for the area functional of $I$. We use [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional|a formula in t]] to expand $I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1})$, not [[02. Curves#^def-curve-area-functional|the definition of I]] to expand $I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1})$ in terms of $s$. With this, the left-hand side is equal to the following.

$$
\begin{gather}
I(\mathbf{y}) + I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), \mathbf{x}(t_1) \right) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}) + I\left( \mathbf{x}(t_0), \mathbf{y}(t_0) \right) \\
= I(\mathbf{y}) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}) + \left( I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), \mathbf{x}(t_1) \right) - I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), \mathbf{x}(t_0) \right) \right) \\
= \frac{1}{2} \left( \int_{(t_0, t_1]} \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \int_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) + \mathbf{y}(t_1) \times \mathbf{x}(t_1) - \mathbf{y}(t_0) \times \mathbf{x}(t_0) \right)
\end{gather}
$$

Then we invoke 

□