Instead of moving a sofa $S$ inside the fixed hallway $L$, we can fix the sofa $S$ and move/rotate the hallway $L$ by looking at the movement in perspective of the sofa. That is, the sofa is an intersection of rotating hallways.

TODO: insert figure here.

> __Theorem [moving-hallway-angle].__ Let $S$ be a sofa with rotation angle $\beta$. Then there is a  ^thm-moving-hallway-angle

We will soon consider only a finite intersection of hallways with a prescribed set of angles. With this, we introduce the following notion.

> __Definition [hallway-intersection].__ A connected shape $S$ is a _hallway intersection_ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and _angle set_ $\Theta \subseteq \left[ 0, \omega \right]$ if the followings hold.
> - $\Theta$ is a closed set such that $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta$
> - $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$
> - For every $\theta \in \Theta$, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_\theta(L)$, the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\theta$.
> - $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_\omega(V)$, the vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\omega$.
> ^def-hallway-intersection

We will show that a sofa with rotation angle $\omega$ is exactly a hallway intersection with the following angle set.

> __Definition [full-angle-set].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define $\Pi_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. ^def-full-angle-set

> __Definition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and an angle $t$, define the _tangent hallway_ $L_S(t)$ of $S$ with angle $t$ as the following.
> $$
L_S(t) = R_t(L) + (p_S(t) - 1)u_t + (p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1)v_t
$$
 ^def-tangent-hallway

> __Lemma [in-tangent-hallway].__ If a shape $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$ for an angle $t$, then the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ of $S$ with angle $t$ contains $S$ as well. ^lem-in-tangent-hallway

_Proof._ TODO □

