# Arc-length Parametrization of $\partial K$

In this section, fix an arbitrary convex body $K$ and the starting angle $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$.

We would like to construct an arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of the boundary $\partial K$ starting with the point $v_K^+(t_0)$. Before providing the full definition of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$, we investigate the properties of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ in order to motivate the definition. Take an arbitrary point $p'$ on the boundary $\partial K$. Let $s' \in [0, B_K]$ be the arc length $s'$ between $p'$ and $v_K^+(t_0)$ on $\partial K$, so that $p' = \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s')$. As the point $p'$ is on the boundary of $K$, $p'$ is inside a tangent line $l_K(t')$ for some angle $t' \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. The relation of the arc length $s'$ and the tangent line angle $t'$ not bijective as $p'$ is taken arbitarily: a single value of $s'$ can have multiple possible values of $t'$ if the point $p'$ is a sharp corner of $K$. On the other hand, for one value of $t'$, if the edge $e_K(t')$ is a proper line segment then every point $p' \in e_K(t')$ of the edge gives rise to a different value of $s'$. However, the values $s'$ and $t'$ form a generalized inverse of each other as described in [[@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]]. For each $s'$ (resp. $t'$) it makes sense to find the corresponding value of $t'$ (resp. $s'$). The function $s_{K, t_0}$ maps parameter $t'$ to parameter $s'$, and $t_{K, t_0}$ maps parameter $s'$ to parameter $t'$ in this way. Our definition of $t_{K, t_0}$ corresponds to the minimum inverse $s_{K, t_0}^\wedge$ of $s_{K, t_0}$ in [[@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]].

> __Definition [st-conversion].__ Define monotonically increasing functions: ^def-st-conversion
> - $s_{K, t_0} : [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \to [0, B_K]$ as $s_{K, t_0}(t) = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right)$
> - and $t_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ as $t_{K, t_0}(s) = \min \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$.

_Proof._ It is easy to check that $s_{K, t_0}$ is monotonically increasing. To see the well-definedness of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ as a function, we only need to observe that for any $s \in [0, B_K]$ the minimum value $t$ of the set $X = \left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (a, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$ is well-defined. As $\beta((a, t])$ is monotonically increasing by [[#^thm-boundary-measure-nonnegative]], zero at $t=a$, and $B_K$ at $t=a + 2\pi$ the set $X$ is nonempty. The infimum of $X$ is contained in $X$ because $\beta_K((t_0, t])$ is right-continuous with respect to $t$. That $t_{K, t_0}$ is monotonically increasing follows immediately from the definition of $t_{K, t_0}$. □

> __Definition [parametrization-formal].__ Define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the following absolutely continuous (and thus rectifiable) function with the derivative $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0}(s') = u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')}$ almost everywhere. ^def-parametrization-formal
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s) := v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s]} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds'
$$

_Proof._ As $t_{K, t_0}$ is a monotone function which is well-defined on $[0, B_K]$, it is a Borel function and the integral is well-defined. By a criterion of absolute continuity, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is absolutely continous with the derivative $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0}(s') = u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')}$ almost everwhere. □

Length of an absolutely continuous curve $\mathbf{x}$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the integral of $| | \mathbf{x}'(t) | |$ [[@jones2001lebesgue]]. So we have the following.

> __Theorem [parametrization-arc-length].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is an arc-length parametrization. ^thm-parametrization-arc-length

The following is a technical computation.

> __Lemma [parametrization-set-calculation].__ The followings hold. ^lem-parametrization-set-calculation
> 
> - For any $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$, we have $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$.
> - Moreover, the set $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_1 \right\})$ is either $[s_{K, t_0}(t_1-), s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$ or $(s_{K, t_0}(t_1-), s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$.

_Proof._ The first statement comes from manipulating the definitions as the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) & = \left\{ s \in [0, B_K] : \min \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \beta\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\} \in [t_0, t_1] \right\} \\
& = \left\{ s \in [0, B_K] :  \beta\left( (t_0, t_1] \right) \geq s \right\} \\
& = [0, \beta_K((t_0, t_1])] = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]
\end{align*}
$$

Now send $t \to t_1^-$ in the equality $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t]) = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ to get that $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1)) = \bigcup_{t < t_1} [0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is either $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1-))$ or $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1-)]$. Then use $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_1 \right\}) = t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) \setminus t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1))$ to get the second statement of the lemma. □

> __Theorem [parametrization-vertex].__ $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t)) = v_{K}^+(t)$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Moreover, for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ the function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ restricted to the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-parametrization-vertex

_Proof._ The first statement of [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]] shows that the measure $\beta_K$ on $(t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure on $(0, B_K]$ with respect to the map $t_{K, t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. With this, we have the following calculation.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s_{K, t_0}(t)) & = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1])} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{t \in(t_0, t_1]} u_t \, \beta(dt) = v^+_K(t)
\end{align*}
$$
For the proof of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$, send $t' \to t^-$ in the equation $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t')) = v_{K}^+(t')$ and use [[01. Convex Bodies#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]]. From the second statement of [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]], we get that on the interval $s' \in (s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ the value $t_{K, t_0}(s')$ is equal to $t$. So the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s')$ restricted to the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is almost everywhere equal to $u_t$, and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ on the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$. □

> __Corollary [boundary-segment-parametrization].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ as the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s)$ restricted on the interval $s \in [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$. Then $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the arc-length parametrization from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ of the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$. Moreover, if we define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1 -}$ as the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s)$ resticted on the interval $s \in [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1 -)]$, then $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1 -}$ and the edge $e_K(t)$ directed from $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. ^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization

_Proof._ The interval $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$ is equal to the inverse image $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} ([t_0, t_1])$, and so is the disjoint union of the singleton $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_0 \right\}) = [0, s_{K, t_0}(0)] = \left\{ 0 \right\}$ and the intervals $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t \right\})$ whose closure is $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$. Under the map $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$, the singleton $\left\{ 0 \right\}$ maps to $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\}$ and the set $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ maps to $e_K(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ by [[#^thm-parametrization-vertex]]. This proves that the image of the interval $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$ under the map $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$.

That $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1 -}$ and the edge $e_K(t)$ directed from $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ is a direct consequence of [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-parametrization-vertex]]. □

The boundary $\partial K$ is the union of all the edges.

> __Theorem [boundary-is-union-all-edges].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Then the topological boundary $\partial K$ of $K$ as a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the union of all edges $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. ^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges

_Proof._ Let $E = \cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. $E \subseteq \partial K$ comes from $E \subseteq K$ and that any point in $E$ is on some tangent line of $K$ so its neighborhood contains a point outside $K$. Now take any point $p \in \partial K$. As $K$ is closed we have $p \in K$. So $p \cdot u_t \leq p_K(t)$ for any $t \in S^1$. Assume that the equality does not hold for any $t \in S^1$. Then by compactness of $S^1$ and continuity of $p_K$ there is some $\epsilon > 0$ such that $\epsilon \leq p_K(t) - p\cdot u_t$ for any $t$. This implies that the ball of radius $\epsilon$ centered at $p$ is contained in $K$. This contradicts $p \in \partial K$. So it should be that there is some $t \in S^1$ such that $p \cdot u_t = p_K(t)$. That is, $p \in e_K(t)$. □

> __Theorem [parametrization-positive-jordan].__ Let $K$ be any convex body with nonempty interior. For any $t \in \mathbb{R}$, the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t} : [0, B_K]$ is a positively oriented arc-length parametrization of the boundary $\partial K$ as a Jordan curve such that . ^thm-parametrization-positive-jordan

_Proof._ A tedious and rudimetary check using [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^def-st-conversion]], [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^def-parametrization-formal]] and [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization]] shows that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t} = \mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + 2\pi}$ is the join of two curves $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ connecting $p = v_{K}^+(t)$ and $q = v_K^+(t + \pi)$ and vice versa. As $K$ has nonempty interior, the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is strictly positive, and the point $p$ is strictly further than the point $q$ in the direction of $u_t$.

We first show that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is a Jordan arc from $p$ to $q$. The curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is the join of the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi-}$ and $e_{K}(t + \pi)$ by [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization]]. Also, the derivative $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi-}'(s')$ for an arbitary $s'$ is always a unit vector $v_{t'}$ where $t' = t_{K, t}(s') \in (t, t + \pi)$ so the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi-}$ is strictly monotonically decrasing in the $x$-coordinates. This with the fact that $e_K(\pi)$ is a vertical line segment shows that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is injective and thus a Jordan arc. A similar argument shows that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ is also a Jordan arc.

Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the half-planes divided by the line connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. We first observe that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t+\pi}$ is in $H_0$: as the image of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t+\pi}$ is the point $p$ and the union of edges $e_K(t_1)$ for some $t_1 \in (t, t+\pi]$ by [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization]], and as $p, q \in K$ and $t_1 \in (t, t + \pi]$ the edges $e_K(t_1)$ should lie in $H_0$. A similar argument shows that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t+\pi, t+2\pi}$ is in $H_1$.

Moreover, if $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, \pi}$ ever contains a point $r$ in the interior of $H_0$, then $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, \pi}$ connects $p$ and $q$ only using the points in the interior of $H_0$: the intersection of $K$ and the line $pq$ is the line segment connecting $p$ and $q$, and as $K$ is convex, $K$ contains the triangle $pqr$, and so the intersection of the edge $e_K(t)$ and the line $pq$ . So $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, \pi}$ is either inside the line $pq$ or disjoint from the line $pq$ except for the endpoints $p$ and $q$. The same argument can be carried to $\mathbf{x}_{K, \pi, 2\pi}$. If both curves $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, \pi}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, \pi, 2\pi}$ are in the line $pq$, then it contradicts the fact that $K$ has nonempty interior. So either one of the curves should lie strictly inside the interior of either $H_0$ or $H_1$, and the Jordan arcs $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, \pi}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, \pi, 2\pi}$ overlaps only at the endpoints. Therefore the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, 2\pi}$ is a Jordan curve. That $\mathbf{x}_{K, 0, 2\pi}$ is positively-oriented comes from [[03. Geometric Results#^lem-orientation]]. TODO TODO TODO □

> __Theorem [parametrization].__ Let $K$ be any convex body with nonempty interior. For any point $p \in \partial K$ there is a unique positively-oriented arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}(s) : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of the boundary $\partial K$ as a Jordan arc such that $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}(0) = p$. Consequently, for any two different points $p, q \in \partial K$ there is a unique Jordan arc $\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}$ which is a restriction of $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}$. Moreover, we have $\mathbf{x}_{K, v^+_K(t_0)} = \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, v^+_K(t_0), v^+_K(t_1)} = \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$. ^thm-parametrization

_Proof._ [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-parametrization-positive-jordan]] shows that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is a positively oriented Jordan arc parametrization of $\partial K$. So all positively oriented Jordan arc parametrization is a cyclic shift of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$. □

Now we are ready to prove the results we claimed on the boundary of $K$.

_Proof._ (of [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-parametrization]]) The theorem is a combination of [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]] and [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^def-parametrization]]. □

_Proof._ (of [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-parametrization-segment]]) This theorem is a combination of [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization]] and [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-parametrization]]. □

> __Theorem [boundary-segment-area-functional].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. The boundary segment $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}(s)$ of $K$ from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ has the following area functional. ^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t') \, \beta(dt') = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in (t_0, t_1]} v_K^+(t') \times dv_K^+(t')
$$

Note that the integral cannot be defined as a Riemann-Stieltjes integral as $v_K^+(t)$ shares the same discontinuity as itself. However, as we are adopting the Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral for the definition, the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d v_K^+(t)$ is well-defined from [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation]]  and [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-right-continuous]].

_Proof._ Take any $s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$. Let $t' = t_{K, t_0}(s')$ and observe that $t' \in (t_0, t_1]$ and $s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}(\left\{ s' \right\})$. Then as $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \in e_K(t')$ by [[#^thm-parametrization-vertex]], we have $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \times v_{t'} = p_K(t')$. So we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]} \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \times u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}((t_0, t_1])} p_K(t_{K, t_0}(s')) \, ds' \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t') \, \beta(dt')
\end{align*}
$$
The last equality uses that the measure $\beta_K$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure with respect to the map $t_{K, t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. This proves the first equality stated in the theorem. To show the second equality in the statement, check $v_K(t') \times dv_K^+(t') = v_K^+(t') \times v_{t'} \beta_K(dt') = p_K(t') \beta(dt')$. □