
> __Definition [monotone-sofa-embedding].__ For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, define $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ as the subset of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ of the caps $\mathcal{C}_S$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]]) of an arbitrary monotone sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$. ^def-monotone-sofa-embedding

$\mathcal{M}_\omega$ is a proper subset of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/15. Cap contains niche#^rem-niche-not-in-cap]]. By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]], the set of all monotone sofas $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ embeds to the subset $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ by taking the cap $S \mapsto \mathcal{C}_S$. By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]] and [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^cor-sofa-area-functional]], the moving sofa problem for a fixed rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is now equivalent to the maximization of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ on the subspace $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

We will, however, try to optimize the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ over the whole $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, not the subspace $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. This is because the space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ of all caps is turns out to be a convex space ([[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^def-convex-space]]) which is easier to understand than the subspace $\mathcal{M}_\omega$. By extending the domain of optimization of $\mathcal{A}$ from $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ to $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, we get a counterpart of every statement on maximum-area monotone sofas. To start, we have the following strenghtening of Gerver's conjecture $u_{\max} = u_G$.

> __Conjecture [gerver-cap].__ The cap $K = K_G$ of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum value $\mathcal{A}(K)$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ over all rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. ^con-gerver-cap

While we cannot prove [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-gerver-cap]], we expect it to be true. The rest of the paper proves the following strenghtening of main [[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/03. Main result#^thm-main]] that extends the domain from $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ to $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

> __Theorem [main-cap].__ (Generalized main theorem) Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. If the rotation path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of $K$ is injective and always on the fan $F_\omega$, then we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq 1 + \omega^2/2$. ^thm-main-cap

> __Proposition [main-cap].__ [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] implies [[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/03. Main result#^thm-main]]. ^pro-main-cap

_Proof._ Let $S$ be any monotone sofa of rotation angle $\omega \in (0 ,\pi/2]$ with cap $K = \mathcal{C}_S$, so that $S$ satisfies the injectivity condition ([[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/03. Main result#^def-injectivity]]). By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^pro-cap-same-tangent-hallway]] we have $\mathbf{x}_S = \mathbf{x}_K$. So the injectivity condition of $S$ implies that $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is injective and always on the fan $F_\omega$. By [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq 1 + \omega^2/2$. By [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^cor-sofa-area-functional]] we have $|S| = \mathcal{A}(K)$, completing the proof. □

We finish this section by mentioning the counterparts of angle and injectivity hypotheses ([[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/03. Main result#^con-angle]] and ) that extend the domain from $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ to $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

> __Conjecture [angle-cap].__ The supremum of $\mathcal{A}_{\omega} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ maximizes at $\omega = \pi/2$. ^con-angle-cap

> __Conjecture [injectivity-cap].__ There exists a maximizer $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}_{\omega}$ over all rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, such that the rotation path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is injective and always on the fan $F_\omega$. ^con-injectivity-cap

Perhaps surprisingly, [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-angle-cap]] does not necessarily imply [[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/03. Main result#^con-angle]]. Similarly, [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]] does not necessarily imply [[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/03. Main result#^con-injectivity]]. This is because a maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_\omega$ is not necessarily a cap of a monotone sofa in $\mathcal{M}_\omega$. However, observe that proving [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-angle-cap]] would allow us to assume $\omega = \pi/2$ in a potential proof of [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]], and [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] with a proof of [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]] would imply the upper bound $1 + \pi^2/8$ of sofa area unconditionally. Proving [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-angle-cap]] and [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]] will be the main goal of subsequent works.