This section proves necessary tools for convex bodies in a plane $\mathbb{R}^2$. Recall that a convex body $K$ is a nonempty compact subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ which is an intersection of half-planes ([[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-half-plane]]). We defined its [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-support-function|support function]] $p_K$, [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-tangent-line|tangent lines]] $l_K(t)$, [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-half-plane|half-planes]] $H_K(t)$, vertices $v_K^\pm (t)$, and edges $e_K(t)$ ([[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-convex-body-edge]]).

The support function $p_K$ is Lipschitz so continuous.

> __Theorem [support-function-lipschitz].__ For any convex body $K$, its support function $p_K$ is Lipschitz. Moreover, if $K$ is inside the closed ball of radius $R$ centered at the origin, then $p_K$ is $R$-Lipschitz. ^thm-support-function-lipschitz

_Proof._ For every point $z \in K$, define $f_z : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}$ as the function $t \mapsto z \cdot u_t$. Observe that $f_z$ is a sinusoidal function with an amplitude of $\leq R$, so is $R$-Lipschitz. The support function $p_K$ is the supremum of $f_z$ for all $z \in K$, so is itself $R$-Lipschitz as well. □

Next, we prove two technical lemmas to proceed. The following lemma is the hard/technical part of computing limits.

> __Lemma [limits-converging-to-vertex].__ Let $K$ be a convex body and $t$ be an arbitrary angle. We have the following right limits all converging to $v_K^+(t)$. In particular, the vertex $v_K^+(t)$ is a right-continuous function on $t \in S^1$. ^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex
$$
\lim_{ u \to t^+ } v_K^+(u) = \lim_{ u \to t^+ } v_K^-(u) = \lim_{ u \to t^+ } l_K(u) \cap l_K(t) = v_K^+(t)
$$
> Similarly, we have the following left limits.
$$
\lim_{ u \to t^- } v_K^+(u) = \lim_{ u \to t^- } v_K^-(u) = \lim_{ u \to t^- } l_K(u) \cap l_K(t) = v_K^-(t)
$$

_Proof._ We only prove the right limits. Left limits can be shown using a symmetric argument.

Let $\epsilon > 0$ be arbitrary. Let $p = v_K^+(t) + \epsilon v_t$. Then by the definition of $v_K^+(t)$ the point $p$ is not in $K$. As $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus K$ is open, any sufficiently small open neighborhood of $p$ is disjoint from $K$, so we can take some positive $\epsilon' < \epsilon$ such that the closed line segment connecting $p$ and $q = p - \epsilon' u_t$ is disjoint from $K$ as well. Consider the line $l$ that passes through both $q$ and $v_K^+(t)$. By the definition of $q = v_K^+(t) - \epsilon' u_t + \epsilon v_t$, we have $l = l(t', h')$ for some $t' \in (t, t + \pi/2)$ and $h' \in \mathbb{R}$. Define the closed right-angled triangle formed by vertices $v_K^+(t)$, $p$, and $q$ as $T$. Then $T$ is on the opposite sitde of $H(t', h')$ along the line $l$.

Define $H' = H(t' + \pi, -h')$ as the half-plane opposite to the half-plane $H(t', h')$. We show that $K \cap H' \subseteq T$. Assume by contradiction that there is $r \in K \cap H'$ not in $T$. As $r \in K$, $r$ should be in the tangential half-plane $H_K(t)$. As $r \in H' \cap H_K(t)$ and $r \not\in T$, the line segment connecting $r$ and $v_K^+(t)$ should cross the line segment connecting $p$ and $q$ at some point $s$. As $r, v_K^+(t) \in K$ we also have $s \in K$ by convexity. But the line segment connecting $p$ and $q$ is disjoint from $K$ by how we took $q$, so we get contradiction. Thus we have $K \cap H' \subseteq T$.

We show that for any angle $t_0 \in (t, t')$, the edge $e_K(t_0)$ should lie inside the triangular region $T$. Observe that for all points $z \in K$ which is also in the fan $H_K(t) \cap H(t', h')$, the vertex $z = v_K^+(t)$ attains the maximum of $z \cdot u_{t_0}$. All other points $z \in K$ outside the fan $H_K(t) \cap H(t', h')$ is in $T$ because $K \cap H' \subseteq T$. So the maximizer $z \in K$ of $z \cdot u_{t_0}$ lies in $T$ either way, and so $e_K(t_0) \subseteq T$. Observe that the triangle $T$ contains $v_K^+(t)$ and has diameter $< 2\epsilon$ because two perpendicular sides of $T$ containing $p$ has length $\leq \epsilon$. So both endpoints $v_K^+(u)$ and $v_K^-(u)$ are distance $< 2\epsilon$ away from $v_K^+(t)$. This completes the epsilon-delta argument for $\lim_{ u \to t^+ } v_K^+(u) = \lim_{ u \to t^+ } v_K^-(u) = v_K^+(t)$. Also, note that $l_K(u) \cap l_K(t)$ is inside $T$ as well, so we also show $\lim_{ u \to t^+ } l_K(u) \cap l_K(t) = v_K^+(t)$. □

We prepare another technical lemma on the limit of the intersection of two tangent lines.

> __Lemma [intersection-tangent-lines].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary with $t' = t + \theta$ for $\theta \in (-\pi, \pi) \setminus \left\{ 0 \right\}$. Then the intersection $l_{K}(t) \cap l_K(t')$ is a point and it is exactly the following.  ^lem-intersection-tangent-lines
$$
l_{K}(t) \cap l_K(t') = p_K(t) u_{t} + \alpha_K(t, \theta) v_{t}
$$
> Here, the value $\alpha_K(t, \theta)$ is the following.
$$
\alpha_K(t, \theta) = \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t) \cos \theta}{\sin \theta}
$$
> As a function of $\theta$, $\alpha_K(t, \theta)$ is continuous and monotonically increasing on the intervals $(-\pi, 0)$ and $(0, \pi)$.

_Proof._ Because the point $p = l_{K}(t) \cap l_K(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$, we have $p = p_K(t) u_{t} + \alpha v_{t}$ for some constant $\alpha \in \mathbb{R}$. We use $p \cdot u_{t'} = p_K(t')$ to derive the unique value $\alpha = \alpha_K(t, \theta)$.
$$
\begin{align*}
p_K(t') &= p_K(t) (u_{t} \cdot u_{t'}) + \alpha (v_{t} \cdot u_{t'}) \\
&= p_K(t) \cos \theta + \alpha \sin \theta
\end{align*}
$$
This gives $\alpha = p_C(t') \csc \theta - p_C(t) \cot \theta$ as claimed and completes the calculation. The value $\alpha$ is continuous on $(-\pi, \pi) \setminus \left\{ 0 \right\}$ by the formula. 

We show that $\alpha_K(t, \theta)$ is increasing on the interval $\theta \in (0, \pi)$. A similar argument works for the interval $\theta \in (-\pi, 0)$ as well. 

Take two values $\theta_1 < \theta_2$ in $(0, \pi)$. Let $\alpha_i = \alpha_K(t, \theta_i)$ and $v_i = l_K(t) \cap l_K(t + \theta_i) = p_K(t)u_t + \alpha_i v_t$ for $i = 1, 2$. Observe that $K$ is contained in the intersection $C$ of $H_K(t)$ and $H_K(t + \theta_2)$. The intersection $C$ is a cone with vertex $v_2$, and by geometric considerations the vertex $v_2$ is furthest in the direction of $u_{t + \theta_1}$ among all the points in $C$. So the interior of $H = H_K(t + \theta_1)$ does not contain $v_2$, but $v_1$ is on the boundary of $H$. This implies that $v_2$ is further than $v_1$ in the direction of $v_t$, so $\alpha_1 \leq \alpha_2$. □

Observe that the edge $e_K(t)$ is a segment of the line $l_K(t)$, so $l_K(t) \setminus e_K(t)$ is a union of two disjoint open half-lines. Using the previous technical lemmas, we can parametrize those half-lines by the intersection of two tangent lines.

> __Theorem [tangent-line-parametrization].__ Take any convex body $K$ and $t \in S^1$. Define $\mathbf{p} : [0, \pi) \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{p}(\theta) = l_K(t - \theta) \cap l_K(t)$ for $\theta > 0$ and $\mathbf{p}(0) = v_K^-(t)$. Likewise, define $\mathbf{q} : [0, \pi) \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{q}(\theta) = l_K(t + \theta) \cap l_K(t)$ for $0 < \theta$ and $\mathbf{q}(0) = v_K^+(t)$.
> 
> If the width $w_K(t) = p_K(t + \pi) + p_K(t)$ of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is positive, then $\mathbf{p}$ (resp. $\mathbf{q}$) is an absolutely-continuous parametrization of the ray starting from $v_K^-(t)$ (resp. $v_K^+t)$ in the direction of $-v_t$ (resp. $v_t$).
> 
> If the width $w_K(t)$ is zero, then $K$ is the line segment connecting $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_K^-(t)$, so $\mathbf{p}$ and $\mathbf{q}$ are constant functions $v_K^-(t)$ and $v_K^+(t)$ respectively. ^thm-tangent-line-parametrization

_Proof._ As $K$ is nonempty, the width $w_K(t)$ has to be nonnegative. If it is zero, then as $K$ is in the line $H_K(t) \cap H_K(t + \pi)$ we get the conclusion. Assume that the width $w_K(t)$ is strictly positive. By [[01. Convex Bodies#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]] and [[01. Convex Bodies#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]], we only need to show that $\alpha_K(t, \theta) \to \pm \infty$ as $\theta \to \pm \pi$. Observe that as we take $\theta \to \pm \pi$, $p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t) \cos \theta$ converges to the width $w_K(t)$, so $\alpha_K(t, \theta) \to \pm \infty$ by using the formula in [[01. Convex Bodies#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]]. □

> __Theorem [vertex-monotone].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Let $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ be any angle. On the interval $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \pi]$, the value $v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t$ is monotonically decreasing. On the interval $t \in [t_0 - \pi, t_0]$, the value $v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t$ is monotonically increasing. ^thm-vertex-monotone

_Proof._ (sketch) Take two arbitrary values $t_1 < t_2$ in the interval $[t_0, t_0 +  \pi]$. By [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]], the points $v_K^+(t_1), l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2), v_K^-(t_2), v_K^+(t_2)$ goes further in the direction of $-v_t$ in the increasing order. This shows that the value $v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t$ is monotonically decreasing on the interval $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \pi]$. A symmetric argument proves the other claim. □

> __Theorem [vertex-bounded-variation].__ On any bounded interval $t \in I$ of $\mathbb{R}$, $v_K^+(t)$ is of bounded variation. ^thm-vertex-bounded-variation

_Proof._ (sketch) The $x$ and $y$-coordinates of $v_K^+(t)$ either monotonically increases or decreases on each of the intervals $[0, \pi/2]$, $[\pi/2, \pi]$, $[\pi, 3\pi/2]$, $[3\pi/2, 2\pi]$ by [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-monotone]]. So the coordinates are of bounded variation on each interval. □

We now calculate the left/right differentiation of $p_K(t)$.

> __Theorem [vertex-formula].__ For any convex body $K$, $p_K$ is both left and right differentiable. Moreover, for any angle $t \in S^1$ the following equalities hold. ^thm-vertex-formula
$$
v_K^+(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t
$$
$$
v_K^-(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial_-p_K(t)v_t.
$$

_Proof._ We show the first equality. The last limit of [[#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] and [[#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] shows that we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
v_K^+(t) & = p_K(t)u_t + \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ }  \alpha_K(t, \theta)v_t
\end{align*}
$$
Computing the limit,
$$
\begin{align*}
\lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ }  \alpha_K(t, \theta) & = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t) \cos \theta}{\sin \theta} \\
& = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \left( \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t)}{\theta} + p_K(t) \frac{1- \cos \theta}{ \theta } \right) \cdot \frac{\theta}{\sin \theta} \\
& = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t)}{\theta}  \\
& = \partial^+p_K(t)
\end{align*} 
$$
as $(1 - \cos \theta)/\theta \to 0$ and $\theta / \sin \theta \to 1$ as $\theta \to 0$. The second inequality can be proved in a similar way. □

> __Corollary [right-differentiation-right-continuous].__ For any convex body $K$, $\partial^+ p_K$ is right-continuous. ^cor-right-differentiation-right-continuous

_Proof._ By [[#^thm-vertex-right-continuous]] and [[#^thm-vertex-formula]] we have $p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t$ right-continuous. $p_K(t)$ is continuous by [[#^thm-support-function-lipschitz]]. So subtracting and taking the dot product with continuous $v_t$ we get that $\partial^+ p_K$ is right-continuous. □

> __Corollary [right-differentiation-locally-bounded-variation].__  For any convex body $K$, $\partial^+ p_K$ is locally bounded-variation. ^cor-right-differentiation-locally-bounded-variation

_Proof._ Use that $v_K^+(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t$ is [[#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation|locally bounded variation]] and that $p_K$ is [[#^thm-support-function-lipschitz|Lipschitz]]. □

This is a version of the fundamental theorem of calculus for the support function.

> __Corollary [integral-of-right-differentiation].__ For any convex body $K$ and any $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b$, we have the following. ^cor-integral-of-right-differentiation
$$
p_K(b) - p_K(a) = \int_{(a, b]} \partial^+p_K(t)\,dt
$$
> Consequently, $dp_K(t) = \partial^+p_K(t) dt$.

_Proof._ As $p_K$ is Lipschitz by [[#^thm-support-function-lipschitz]], $p_K$ is also absolutely continuous. This [means](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absolute_continuity) that the derivative of $p_k$ exists almost everywhere, and by definition it should be equal to $\partial^+p_K$. By absolute continuity we then get the claimed equation. □

# Parametrization of Tangent Lines

# Support of a Convex Body

> __Theorem [convex-body-support-intersection].__ If a convex body $K$ is supported by $\Theta \subseteq S^1$, then we have the following. $$K = \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} H_K(t)$$ ^thm-convex-body-support-intersection

> __Definition [convex-body-support].__ The _support_ of a convex body $K$ is the minimum closed set $\Theta \subseteq S^1$ such that $K$ is supported by $\Theta$. ^def-convex-body-support