# Construction

> __Definition [boundary-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, define its _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ on $\mathbb{R}$ as $\beta_K(dt) = p_K(t) \cdot dt + d \left( \partial^+p_K(t) \right)$. Here, $dt$ is the Lebesgue measure on $\mathbb{R}$.  ^def-boundary-measure

_Proof._ Note that $p_K$ is [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-support-function-lipschitz|bounded and continuous]] so we can construct the signed measure $p_K(t) \cdot dt$. We use that $\partial^+p_K(t)$ is both [[01. Convex Bodies#^cor-right-differentiation-right-continuous|right-continuous]] and [[01. Convex Bodies#^cor-right-differentiation-locally-bounded-variation|locally bounded-variation]] to construct the [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes-measure|Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]. □

This measure is called as the _surface area measure_ for general $n$-dimensional convex bodies. As $p_K$ is periodic with period $2\pi$, we have the following.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-periodic].__ For any integer $n \in \mathbb{Z}$ and Borel measurable $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}$, we have $\beta_K(X + 2 \pi n) = \beta_K(X)$. Consequently, $\beta_K$ quotients to a measure on $S^1$. ^thm-boundary-measure-periodic

So we won't differentiate $\beta_k$ as a measure on $\mathbb{R}$ and $S^1 = \mathbb{R} / 2\pi \mathbb{R}$. Now we prove [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]].

_Proof._ (of [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]]) First, note that $v_K^+$ is both right-continuous and locally bounded-variation so it makes sense to talk about the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dv_K^+(t)$. The following chain of equalities justify $dv_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$.
$$
\begin{align*}
v_t  \beta_K(dt) & = v_t p_K(t) dt + v_t  d\left( \partial^+ p_K(t) \right)  \\
& = v_t p_K(t) dt + d\left( v_t \partial^+ p_K(t) \right) - (-u_t) \partial^+ p_K(t) dt \\
& = v_t p_K(t) dt + d\left( v_t \partial^+ p_K(t) \right) + d \left( u_t p_K(t)  \right) - v_t p_K(t) dt  \\
& = d\left( v_t \partial^+ p_K(t) + u_t p_K(t) \right) = dv_K^+(t)
\end{align*}
$$

The first equality ues [[#^def-boundary-measure]]. The second and third equality uses [[02. Notations and Conventions#^cor-product-rule-differential]]. The rest uses linearity and definition. The equality
$$
\int_{(a, b]} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) 
$$
comes from the definition of $dv_K^+(t)$. The inequality
$$
\int_{[a, b]} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^-(a) 
$$
comes from sending limit of $a$ in the first equality: for every 
□

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-nonnegative].__ For any convex body $K$, its boundary measure $\beta_K$ is non-negative. ^thm-boundary-measure-nonnegative

_Proof._ We only need to show that $\beta_K$ is non-negative near any $t \in\mathbb{R}$. Take the interval $I = \left( t - \pi/4, t + \pi/4 \right)$. Consider the function $f(u) = \cos(u - t)$ on $I$. Both $f$ and $1/f$ are bounded continous functions on $I$. Also for any $a, b \in I$ such that $a < b$, $\int_{(a, b]} f(u) \beta_K(du) = \left( v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) \right) \cdot v_t$ is nonnegative by [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-monotone]]. So $f \cdot \beta_K$ is nonnegative on $I$, and $(1/f) \cdot f \cdot \beta_K = \beta_K$ is also nonnegative on $I$. □

> __Definition [convex-body-perimeter].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Define $B_K = \beta_K\left( (0, 2 \pi] \right)$ as the _perimeter_ of $K$. By [[#^thm-boundary-measure-periodic]] we also observe that $B_K = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \right)$ for any $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ as well. ^def-convex-body-perimeter

Why is $B_K$ called the perimeter of $K$ will be justified in the next chapters. For now it is just a value assigned to $K$.

# Arc-length Parametrization of $\partial K$

We define the arc-length parametrization of the boundary $\partial K$ with length $B_K$. From now on, we fix an arbitrary convex body $K$ and the starting angle $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$.

Informally speaking, $\partial K$ can be both parametrized by the tangential angle $t$ and the arc-length $s$. The issue is that the relation between $t$ and $s$ is not bijective. Instead, they form a generalized inverse as described in [[@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]]. We first provide conversion formulas between $t$ and $s$. The function $s_{K, t_0}$ maps parameter $t$ to parameter $s$, and $t_{K, t_0}$ maps parameter $s$ to parameter $t$.

> __Definition [st-conversion].__ Define right-continuous, monotonically increasing functions: ^def-st-conversion
> - $s_{K, t_0} : [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \to [0, B_K]$ as $s_{K, t_0}(t) = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right)$
> - and $t_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ as $t_{K, t_0}(s) = \inf \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$.

To see the well-definedness of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$, we only need to observe that for any $s \in [0, B_K]$ the minimum $t$ of $X = \left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (a, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$ is well-defined. As $\beta((a, t])$ is monotonically increasing by [[#^thm-boundary-measure-nonnegative]], zero at $t=a$, and $B_K$ at $t=a + 2\pi$ the minimum $t$ is well-defined.

> __Definition [parametrization-formal].__ Define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the following absolutely continuous (and thus rectifiable) function with the derivative $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0} = u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')}$ almost everywhere. ^def-parametrization-formal
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s) := v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s]} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds'
$$

_Proof._ As $t_{K, t_0}$ is a right-continuous function which is well-defined on $[0, B_K]$, it is a Borel function and the integral is well-defined. By a criterion of absolute continuity, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is absolutely continous with the derivative $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0} = u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')}$ almost everwhere. □

Length of an absolutely continuous curve $\mathbf{x}$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the integral of $| | \mathbf{x}'(t) | |$ [[@jones2001lebesgue]]. So we have the following.

> __Theorem [parametrization-arc-length].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is an arc-length parametrization. ^thm-parametrization-arc-length

> __Theorem [parametrization-vertex].__ $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t)) = v_{K}^+(t)$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Moreover, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(t)$ restricted to $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}(\left\{ t \right\}) = [s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-parametrization-vertex

_Proof._ We first show that the measure $\beta_K$ on $(t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure on $(0, B_K]$ with respect to the map $t_{K, t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. To check this, we need to check that $\beta_K((t_0, t_1]) = |t_{K, t_0}^{-1}((t_0, t_1])|$. This can be done as the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) & = \left\{ s \geq 0 : \inf \left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\} \in [t_0, t_1] \right\}  \\
& = \left\{ s \geq 0 : \inf \left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\} \leq t_1 \right\}  \\
& = \left\{ s \geq 0 :  \beta\left( (t_0, t_1] \right) \geq s \right\} \\
& = [0, \beta_K((t_0, t_1]] = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]
\end{align*}
$$

With this, we have the following calculation.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s_{K, t_0}(t)) & = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1])} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{t \in(t_0, t_1]} u_t \, \beta(dt) = v^+_K(t)
\end{align*}
$$

For the proof of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$, send $t' \to t^+$ in the equation $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t')) = v_{K}^+(t')$. On the interval $s' \in (s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$, the value $t_{K, t_0}(s')$ is equal to $t$. So this gives that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(t)$ restricted to $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. □

> __Corollary [boundary-segment-parametrization].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ as the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s)$ restricted on the interval $s \in [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$. Then $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the arc-length parametrization from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ of the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$. ^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization

_Proof._ The inverse image $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)] = t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} ([t_0, t_1])$ is the disjoint union of the singleton $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_0 \right\}) = [0, s_{K, t_0}(0)] = \left\{ 0 \right\}$ and the intervals $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t \right\}) = [s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$. Under the map $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$, the singleton $\left\{ 0 \right\}$ maps to $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\}$ and the set $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ maps to $e_K(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ by [[#^thm-parametrization-vertex]]. □

The boundary $\partial K$ is the union of all the edges.

> __Theorem [boundary-is-union-all-edges].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Then the topological boundary $\partial K$ of $K$ as a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the union of all edges $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. ^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges

_Proof._ Let $E = \cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. $E \subseteq \partial K$ comes from $E \subseteq K$ and that any point in $E$ is on some tangent line of $K$ so its neighborhood contains a point outside $K$. Now take any point $p \in \partial K$. As $K$ is closed we have $p \in K$. So $p \cdot u_t \leq p_K(t)$ for any $t \in S^1$. Assume that the equality does not hold for any $t \in S^1$. Then by compactness of $S^1$ and continuity of $p_K$ there is some $\epsilon > 0$ such that $\epsilon \leq p_K(t) - p\cdot u_t$ for any $t$. This implies that the ball of radius $\epsilon$ centered at $p$ is contained in $K$. This contradicts $p \in \partial K$. So it should be that there is some $t \in S^1$ such that $p \cdot u_t = p_K(t)$. That is, $p \in e_K(t)$. □

> __Definition [parametrization].__ Let $K$ be any convex body with nonempty interior. For any point $p \in \partial K$ there is a unique, positively-oriented, arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}(s) : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of the boundary $\partial K$ as a Jordan arc such that $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}(0) = p$. Consequently, for any two different points $p, q \in \partial K$ there is a unique Jordan arc $\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}$ which is a restriction of $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}$. ^def-parametrization

_Proof._ (Sketch) By [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]], there is some $t \in S^1$ such that $p \in e_K(t)$. By [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]] and [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization]], the curve $\mathbf{x}_{t, t + 2 \pi} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}$ is the arc-length parametrization of $\partial K$.  □

> __Theorem [boundary-segment-area-functional].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. The boundary segment $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}(s)$ of $K$ from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ has the following area functional. ^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t') \, \beta(dt') = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in (t_0, t_1]} v_K^+(t') \times dv_K^+(t')
$$

Note that the integral cannot be defined as a Riemann-Stieltjes integral as $v_K^+(t)$ shares the same discontinuity as itself. However, as we are adopting the Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral for the definition, the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d v_K^+(t)$ is well-defined from [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation]]  and [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-right-continuous]].

_Proof._ Take any $s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$. Let $t' = t_{K, t_0}(s')$ and observe that $t' \in (t_0, t_1]$ and $s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}(\left\{ s' \right\})$. Then as $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \in e_K(t')$ by [[#^thm-parametrization-vertex]], we have $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \times v_{t'} = p_K(t')$. So we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]} \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \times u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}((t_0, t_1])} p_K(t_{K, t_0}(s')) \, ds' \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t') \, \beta(dt')
\end{align*}
$$
The last equality uses that the measure $\beta_K$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure with respect to the map $t_{K, t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. This proves the first equality stated in the theorem. To show the second equality in the statement, check $v_K(t') \times dv_K^+(t') = v_K^+(t') \times v_{t'} \beta_K(dt') = p_K(t') \beta(dt')$. □

# Support

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-support].__ The support of any convex body $K$ ([[01. Convex Bodies#^def-convex-body-support]]) is the support of the measure $\beta_K$. ^thm-boundary-measure-support

_Proof._  □