> __Lemma [vertices-extreme-points].__ All extreme points of any convex boy $K$ are the points $v^-_K(t)$ and $v_K^+(t)$ for arbitrary $t \in S^1$. ^lem-vertices-extreme-points

_Proof._ First, we show that any extreme point is of form $v^-_K(t)$ or $v_K^+(t)$. Any extreme point $p$ should be on the boundary of $K$, and by [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^lem-boundary-union-edges]] $p$ is in $e_K(t)$ for some $t$. Now $p$ should be one of the endpoints $v^-_K(t)$ or $v_K^+(t)$ of $e_K(t)$, or otherwise $p$ can be represented as strict convex combination of the endpoints and thus not a extreme point. 

Next, we show that the endpoints $v^-_K(t)$ or $v_K^+(t)$ are extreme points of $K$.  □

This is an immediate corollary of [[#^lem-vertices-extreme-points]] using Krein–Milman theorem.

> __Corollary [convex-hull-vertices].__ For any convex body $K$, the convex hull of the points $v^-_K(t)$ and $v_K^+(t)$ for all $t \in S^1$ is $K$. ^cor-convex-hull-vertices

Now we prove the Gauss-Minkowski Theorem.

_Proof._ (of [[02. Geometric Results#^thm-gauss-minkowski]]) 

For any convex body $K$ such that $v_K^+(t_0) = p_0$, we have $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta_K (dt) = v_K^+(t + 2\pi) - v_K^+(t) = 0$ by [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-measure-vertex]]. On the other hand, let $\beta$ be an arbitrary measure on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. If $K$ is any convex body such that $\beta_K = \beta$ and $v^+_K(t_0) = p_0$, then by [[06. Gauss-Minkowski Theorem#^cor-convex-hull-vertices]] it should be that $K$ is the convex hull of points $v_K^+(t) = p_0 + \int_{u \in (t_0, t]} v_u \, \beta(du)$ and $v_K^-(t) = \int_{u \in (t_0, t)} v_h \, \beta(du)$ completely determined by $\beta$. Thus, the correspondence $K \mapsto \beta_K$ is injective.

In the other direction, let's take arbitrary measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. Our only possible choice of $K$ is the convex hull of points $w^+(t) = p_0 + \int_{u \in (t_0, t]} v_h \, \beta(du)$ and $w^-(t) = p_0 + \int_{u \in (t_0, t)} v_h \, \beta(du)$ like we have just observed. We first show that the points are indeed $w^+ = v_K^+$ and $w^- = v_K^-$ respectively. For any $t' \in (t, t + \pi]$, we have 
$$
(w^+(t') - w^+(t)) \cdot u_t = \int_{u \in (t, t']} v_u \cdot u_t \, \beta(du) \leq 0
$$
and similarly, for any $t' \in (t - \pi, t]$ we have
$$
(w^+(t) - w^+(t')) \cdot u_t = \int_{u \in (t', t]} v_u \cdot u_t \, \beta(du) \geq 0
$$
so fixing $t$ and changing $t'$, $w^+(t') \cdot u_t$ attains the largest value when $t' = t$. Similarly, we can show that $w^+(t) \cdot u_t$ is an upper bound of any $w^-(t') \cdot u_t$ for $t' \in S^1$. This implies that $w^+(t)$ is in the edge $e_K(t)$ by the convex hull definition of $K$. Moreover, if $w^+(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$ then $w^+(t) \cdot u_t = w^+(t') \cdot u_t$ holds and by the formulas above the measure $\beta$ between $t$ and $t'$ should be zero, so it implies $w^+(t') = w^+(t)$. Similarly, if $w^-(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$ then $w^-(t') = w^-(t)$. This implies that $e_K(t)$ is the line segment connecting $w^-(t)$ and $w^+(t) = w^-(t) + \beta(\left\{ t \right\}) v_t$, and so $w^+(t) = v_K^+(t)$ and $w^-(t) = v_K^-(t)$.

Now observe that $v_t \beta(dt) = d w^+(t) = d v_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$, so $\beta = \beta_K$. As we have successfully constructed the inverse of the injective map $K \mapsto \beta_K$, this shows that the correspondence is bijective and finishes the proof. □



