Here we develop a formalization of Mamikon's Theorem.

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary angles such that $t_0 < t_1 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be some parametrization of a rectifiable curve with a measurable function $f : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t)v_t$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_1]$. Then the following holds. ^thm-mamikon
$$
I(\mathbf{y}) + I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}) + I\left( v_K^+(t_0), \mathbf{y}(t_0) \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{a}^{b} f(t) ^2 \, dt
$$

_Proof._ 


For this proof only, let $\mathbf{x} = v_K^+$ be an alias of $v_K^+ : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. First, we verify the differential version of the theorem by the following calculation. Here $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ and the following is an equality of measures on $(t_0, t_1]$. Note that $\mathbf{y}$ is continuous by definition and $\mathbf{x}$ is [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-right-continuous|right-continuous]], so in particular $\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x}$ is also right-continuous, so $d(\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x})$ makes sense as a Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure.

$$
\begin{align*}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + d \left( \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + \left( d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) + \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{x} (t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = f(t) u_t \times d\left( f(t) u_t \right) = f(t) u_t \times ( u_t df(t) + f(t) v_t dt) = f(t)^2 dt
\end{align*}
$$

The first equality uses the [[01x. Measure Theory#^cor-product-rule-differential|product rule of differentials]]. The second equality is an rearrangement using linearity (note that $d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) = - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ by antisymmetry of $\times$). Third equality needs some explanation. As we have $d \mathbf{x}(t) = \beta(dt)v_t$ by [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-measure-vertex|calculation]], and $\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) = f(t)v_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t)) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) = 0$ which is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalities are calculus.

When we integrate the differential formula on the interval $(t_0, t_1]$, $\mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ becomes $2I(\mathbf{y})$ by [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-curve-area-functional|definition]], $\mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t)$ becomes $2I(\mathbf{x})$ by [[04. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional]], and $d(\mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t))$ becomes the difference $2I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - 2I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$. So the integral matches twice the left-hand side of the claimed equality. We conclude the proof by dividing by two. □


TODO: $\mathbf{x}_{K, v^+_K(t), v^+_K(t)}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t}$ connection!