> __Lemma [vertex-approximation].__ $A_{i+1}= A^{\pm}_K(\theta^{*n}_i) + \lambda v_i$ for some nonnegative $\lambda$. $A_{i}= A^{\pm}_K(\theta^{*n}_i) - \lambda v_i$ for some nonnegative $\lambda$. ^lem-vertex-approximation

> __Theorem [upper-bound-leg].__ Fix an interval $[t_{i}, t_{i+1}]$. For any $t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]$, we have $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ bounded from above by the following value. ^thm-upper-bound-leg
$$
\frac{(C_i - A_i) \cdot v_{t_{i+1}}}{\cos(t_{i+1} - t_i)}
$$

_Proof._ Note that $g_{K}^+(t) = \int_{[t, t+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t) \, \beta_K(du)$. So maximizing over all $t$, everything is bounded from above by
$$
L = \int_{[t_i, t_{i+1}+\pi/2]} f(u) \, \beta_K(du)
$$
where $f(u) = 1$ if $u \leq t_{i+1}$, and $f(u) = \cos(u - t_{i+1})$ if $u > t_{i+1}$.
Note the following.
$$
U = (C^-_K(t_{i+1}) - A^-_K(t_{i})) \cdot v_{t_{i+1}} = \int_{[t_i, t_{i+1}+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t_{i+1}) \, \beta_K(du)
$$
Observe that $L \leq U \cdot (1/\cos(t_{i+1} - t_i))$. Then use [[02. Bounding Leg Lengths#^lem-vertex-approximation]] to bound $U$ further by $(C_i - A_i) \cdot v_{t_{i+1}}$.
□

> __Theorem [lower-bound-leg].__ Fix an interval $[t_{i}, t_{i+1}]$. For any $t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]$, we have $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ bounded from below by the following constant. ^thm-lower-bound-leg

_Proof._ Note that $g_{K}^-(t) = \int_{(t, t+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t) \, \beta_K(du)$.

So 
$$
g_K^-(t) \geq \int_{[t_2, t_1+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t_1) \, \beta_K(du) = 

$$

□

Bounding $g^+_K(t)$ where $t$ is near $\pi/2$ is a hard task.

We instead bound $h^+_K(t)$ where $t$ is near zero by symmetry.
Use the gap bounds to bound $h^+_K(0)$ from below. It's the minimum distance from $C^+_K(0)$ to $A^-_K(0)$ in the direction of $u_0$. We claim that for every $t \geq 0$, $h^+_K(t)$ is at least the distance between two such points measured in the direction of $u_t$.

We have a triangle of width 37/32 and height 1. Can I do some euclidean geometry to show the full injectivity on first interval? Or should I do something more in calculation (different partition)?