
## File Format of $\mathcal{T}$

We now describe the exact format of each file that `SofaDesigner` produces for the representation of branch-and-bound tree $\mathcal{T}$.

### Angles used in `angles.json`

The partition $\Theta = \theta_0, \theta_1, \dots, \theta_n$ of interval $[0, \pi/2]$ is given in the order in file `angles.json` as the following format of a single array.

```json
[
    {"cos": "4977/5105", "sin": "1136/5105", "branch_order": 4},
    {"cos": "8023/8905", "sin": "3864/8905", "branch_order": 2},
    {"cos": "351/449"  , "sin": "280/449"  , "branch_order": 0},
    {"cos": "280/449"  , "sin": "351/449"  , "branch_order": 1},
    {"cos": "3864/8905", "sin": "8023/8905", "branch_order": 3},
    {"cos": "1136/5105", "sin": "4977/5105", "branch_order": 5}
]

```

As the first angle $\theta_0 = 0$ and the last angle $\theta_n = \pi/2$ are fixed, the file `angles.json` only contains the remaining angles $\theta_1, \dots, \theta_{n-1}$ in the increasing order. Each angle is not given explicitly in radians or degrees. Instead, the angle's cosine and sine values are given as rational numbers. This is to ensure that all computations can be done with exact rational numbers. The entry `branch_order` can be ignored and it is only consumed by `SofaDesigner` internally. `SofaDesigner` consumes the `angles.json` file and produces the following files describing the tree $\mathcal{T}$.

### List of all linear functionals in `linear-values.json`

`SofaDesigner` uses a set of linear functionals on cap $K$ (that is, linear combinations of the coordinates of $K$) in multiple places. The main use of a linear functional $g$ is to split each node of $\mathcal{T}$ by whether $g \geq 0$ or $g \leq 0$ holds for an arbitrary cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. There are four kinds of values of $g$ possible. The first two are nonnegative for all nodes by default. The last two are nonnegative or nonpositive and used in actual splitting of nodes.

- Nonnegative by default
	- The value $b = 10 - q_{2n}$.
		- The inequality $b \geq 0$ says that the support function is bounded from above by 10, which comes from connectedness of a sofa.
	- For every $0 \leq i \leq 2n$, the side length $s_i = (A_{i+1} - A_i) \cdot v_i$ of $K$.
		- The inequality $s_i \geq 0$ should always hold for every node.
- Splitting values
	- For every $-n < i < j < n$ and $0 < k < n$, the value $l_{i, j, k} = (\mathbf{x}_k - p_{i, j}) \cdot u_0$.
		- The inequality $l_{i, j, k} \geq 0$ (resp. $l_{i, j, k} \leq 0$) means that the point $p_{i, j}$ is on the left (resp. right) side of $\mathbf{x}_k$.
	- For every $0 < i < j < k < n$, the value $o_{i, j, k} = p_{i, j} \cdot v_k - p_k + 1$. 
		- The inequality $o_{i, j, k} \geq 0$ means that the point $p_{i, j}$ is on or over the line $l_k$. 

It is the responsibility of the verifier to compute the exact values of the values above in terms of the coordinates of cap space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$.

The file `linear-values.json` contains the list of all possible values of $g$. The index starts with one, and in other files we will use the index $i$ of $g$ in the list to denote the value of $g$. Sometimes we need to denote the negation $-g$, for which we denote by the negation of the index $i$. For example, the linear functional $o_{1, 2, 3}$ has index 44 in the list `linear-values.json`, then in other files the value $-44$ denotes the linear functional $-o_{1, 2, 3}$.

```json
["s 0", "s 1", "s 2", "s 3", "l 2 3 4", "l 4 5 6", "o 1 2 3"]
```

### Non-leaf nodes of $\mathcal{T}$ in `split-nodes.json`

Every non-leaf node of $\mathcal{T}$ is split into two smaller nodes by whether $g \geq 0$ or $g \leq 0$ holds for some linear functional $g$ in the list `linear-values.json`. We supply all such nodes in a dictionary `split-nodes.json`.

```json
{
    "N1" : {"split_by": 34, "child_geq" : "N34", "child_leq" : "N56"},
    "N1" : {"split_by": 34, "child_geq" : "N34", "child_leq" : "N56"},
    "N1" : {"split_by": 34, "child_geq" : "N34", "child_leq" : "N56"},
    ...
}
```

Every node of $\mathcal{T}$ is denoted by an ID that starts with the letter `N` followed by a nonnegative integer. The keys of dictionary `split-nodes.json` are all non-leaf nodes of $\mathcal{T}$. The value of each non-leaf node is a structure: `"split_by"` denotes the one-index of the linear functional $g$ used to split the node, `"child_geq"` is the ID of the child node with constraint $g \geq 0$ added, and `"child_leq"` is the ID of the child node with constraint $g \leq 0$ added.

**Verifier needs to verify if the given graph indeed gives a complete binary tree.** For every leaf node $N_i$ of $\mathcal{T}$, by following its ancestors' `split_by` values we can extract the list of all constraints $g \geq 0$.

### Leaf nodes $N_*$ of $\mathcal{T}$ in file `leaf-nodes/N*.json`

Every leaf node is either infeasible or optimal. A leaf node is _infeasible_ if the constraints imposed on the node are incompatible and gives an empty set. Let $N_i$ be an infeasible node with the constraints $g_1, g_2, \dots, g_m \geq 0$. By the duality of linear programming, we can always prove the infeasibility by providing _certificates_ $\lambda_1, \dots, \lambda_m \geq 0$ where $\lambda_1 g_1 + \lambda_2 g_2 + \dots + \lambda_m g_m$ is a negative constant. 

```json
{
	"valid": False,
	"type": "infeasible", 
	"infeasible_proof": {"123" : "34/56", "567": "67/89"}
}
```

A leaf node $N_i$ is _optimal_ if the linear constraints are compatible, giving a nonempty domain $\mathcal{N}_i$ of caps. Each optimal leaf node $N_i$ comes with the list $\mathbf{i}_i$ of the order of edges appearing in the niche of the cap $K$ satisfying the constraints of $N_i$. The list is given with the key `edge_order`, and always starts and ends with the index zero, although it may be the list `[0]` of length zero. Every two consecutive values $i$ and $j$ of the list defines a point $p_{i, j}$ of the niche of a hallway intersection with cap $K \in \mathcal{N}_i$.

```json
{
    "is_leaf": true,
    edge_order: [0, 1, 3, -4, 2, 5, 6, 0],
    edge_order_proof: [
		{
            inc_x : {constraint_weights: {-34: "12/34", 45: "45/45"}},
            left_high : {constraint_weights: {}},
            right_above : {},
        },
        {
        },
    ],
    max_area: "12342134/21431234",
    max_area_proof: {
	    arg_max: ["12/34", "56/78"],
	    var_mat: [[],[]], // Check that this conversion + constraint weights 
	    var_mat_inv: [[],[]], // Check that this is a inverse matrix
	    constraint_weights: {"o 2 4 5": "12/34", "45": "45/45"},
    },
}
```