[[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]] contains basic definitions that will be used thoroughout this paper. Since [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]] is comprehensive, the reader is not expected to read everything in [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]] at one setting. Instead, the reader can start off by reading the definitions on moving sofas and convex bodies, and later refer to the parts of this section as needed.

[[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/00. Preface]] proves [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]] that any moving sofa can be enlarged to a monotone sofa, and proves structural [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] and [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]] on monotone sofas. Using this, [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface]] reduces the moving sofa problem to the maximization of the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/00. Preface]] proves the main [[xb. Upper Bound A1/01. Introduction/02. Moving hallway problem#^thm-main]] by establishing the upper bound $1 + \omega^2/2$ of the sofa area $\mathcal{A}$ using the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$. Each section starts with an overview of its own.

[[b. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Convex bodies/00. Preface]] proves numerous properties of an arbitrary planar convex body $K$ that we will use thoroughly in this paper. So the logical ordering of this paper is [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]], followed by [[b. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Convex bodies/00. Preface]], then the sections starting [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/00. Preface]]. A logically inclined reader may read in this ordering to verify the correctness of all arguments. On the other hand, readers who are interested in the overall idea may either start by reading the sections in order and refer to the appendix when needed, or skim the introduction of each section of [[b. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Convex bodies/00. Preface]] and then read the rest of the paper.