We will prove the following [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]].

> __Theorem [balanced-consumed].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$ be arbitary. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ be the balanced cap of rotation angle $\omega$ that maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K)$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-main-balanced]]. Assume also that $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) > 2.2$. Then the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega$ are contained in the closure of the quadrant $Q_K^-(\pi/2 - \omega)$. ^thm-balanced-consumed

Then the main [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/01. Main Result#^thm-angle]] is a consequence of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]].

_Proof._ (of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/01. Main Result#^thm-angle]] from [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]])

- The monotone sofa $S$ admits a movement in $L$ with clockwise rotation by $\omega$. 
- The sofa $S$ also admits a movement in $L_H$ with counterclockwise rotation by $\pi/2 - \omega$. Translate the copy of $S$ in $L_H$ to far left sufficiently far away. Then use the point $o_\omega$ of $S$ as the pivot point that makes contact with the upper edge $y=1$ of $L_H$ always. 

□

We reproduce the argument of Gerver for completeness.

> __Lemma [rotation-angle-simple-bound].__  ^lem-rotation-angle-simple-bound

_Proof._ If $\omega \leq -\pi/4$, then by the intermediate value theorem on the angle of rotation of $S$, there should be a copy of $S$ rotated counterclockwise by $\pi/4$ inside $L$. $S$ should be a common subset of $H$ and the hallway $L$ rotated  □

We factor out some technical calculations of the proof of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]] for easier verification. Readers who are more interested in the main idea can jump to the proof right away and reference these later.

> __Definition [omega-gap].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, define $c_\omega = \tan((\pi/2 - \omega) / 2)$. ^def-omega-gap

> __Proposition [omega-gap].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, $o_\omega - v_0 = c_\omega u_0$ and $o_\omega - u_\omega = c_\omega v_\omega$. ^pro-omega-gap

_Proof._ For this proof only, let $A := o_\omega - v_0$ and $B := o_\omega - v_\omega$. The points $O, A, o_\omega$ (resp. $O, B, o_\omega$) forms a right-angled triangle with the right corner at $A$ (resp. $B$) with height 1 along the edge connecting $o_\omega$ and $A$ (resp. $o_\omega$ and $B$). The angle $\angle AOB$ is $\omega + \pi/2$, so we have $\angle A O o_\omega = \angle o_\omega O B = (\omega + \pi/2)/2$. So the length of the edge connecting $O$ and $A$ (or $O$ and $B$) is equal to $c_\omega$ and we get the equations claimed in the proposition. □

> __Lemma [cap-support-elementary-bound].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, the set ^lem-cap-support-elementary-bound
$$
K' := P_\omega \cap H_-(0, 1.1 + c_\omega) \cap H_-(\omega + \pi/2, 1.1 + c_\omega)
$$
> has an area at most $2.2$.

_Proof._ Define the points $A := o_\omega - v_0$, $B := o_\omega$, $C := A + 1.1 u_0$, $D = B + 1.1 u_0$. Then $A, B, O$ forms a triangle $T$ and $A, B, C, D$ forms a rectangle $R$. By the mirror symmetry of $K'$ along the line connecting $O$ and $o_\omega$, the union of $T$ and $P_\omega \cap R$ forms exactly the half of $K'$ in area. Now it suffices to show that $|T| + |P_\omega \cap R| \leq 1.1$. Since the rectangle $R$ has area $1.1$, the inequality is equivalent to $|T| \leq |R \setminus P_\omega|$.

Let $T'$ be the counterclockwise rotation of $T$ along the point $B$. We will show that $T' \subseteq R \setminus R_\omega(V)$. Since the angle $\angle A O B = (\pi/2 + \omega)/2$ is at least $\pi/4$, the base $\overline{OA}$ of $T$ has length $\leq 1$ and the height $\overline{AB}$ has length 1. So the rotated triangle $T'$ is contained in $R$. Also, since $\angle OBA = (\pi/2 - \omega) / 2 < \pi/2 - \omega$, the rotated triangle $T'$ lies above the upper line $l(\omega, 1)$ of $R_\omega(V)$. So $T'$ is disjoint from $R_\omega(V)$. □

> __Definition [calculation-variables].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$ and $d \geq 1.1$ be arbitary. Define the values $r_y, g \in \mathbb{R}$ and $q_0, q_1 \in \mathbb{R}^2$ depending solely on $\omega$ and $d$ as follows. ^def-calculation-variables
$$
\begin{gather*}
q_0 := o_\omega - v_0 + du_0 \\
r_y := 1 - d \cot \omega \\
g = \sqrt{1 - r_y^2} \\
q_1 := o_\omega - g u_0 \\
\end{gather*}
$$

> __Lemma [calculation-inequalities].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$ and $d \geq 1.1$ be arbitary. Assume also that $d$ is taken so that $r_y \geq 0$. Then the following inequalities are true. ^lem-calculation-inequalities
> 
> 1. $(q_0 - (o_\omega - v_0)) \cdot u_{\pi / 2 - \omega} \geq 1$
> 2.  $(q_1 - (o_\omega - u_\omega)) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$

_Proof._ We first check (1). By the definition of $q_0$, the inequality is $d u_0 \cdot u_{\pi/2-\omega} \geq 1$ and $u_0 \cdot u_{\pi/2 - \omega} = \sin \omega$. So we need $\sin(\arctan(2.2)) \geq (1.1)^{-1}$. Computing, we get $0.910366\dots \geq 0.909090\dots$ as we wanted.

We now check (2). By the definition of $q_1$, the inequality is $(u_\omega - g u_0) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$. Computing the left-hand side gives $- \cos(2\omega) + g \cos \omega \geq 1$. Rearranging the terms, we need to prove $g \geq 2 \cos \omega$ as $(1 + \cos(2\omega)) / \cos \omega = 2 \cos \omega$. Both $g$ and $2 \cos \omega$ are nonnegative, so we only need to compare their squares and prove $g^2 = 1 - r_y^2 \geq 4 \cos^2 \omega$. That is, we only need
$$
1 \geq (1 - d \cot \omega)^2 + 4 \cos^2 \omega
$$
and .

Both $(1 - d \cot \omega)^2$ and $4 \cos^2 \omega$ are convex functions on the interval $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2]$. To see this, compute the second derivative
$$
\left. \frac{d^2}{d \omega^2} \right|_{\omega = 0} (1 - d \cot \omega)^2 = 2 d \csc^4(\omega) \left( d (2 + \cos(2\omega)) - \sin(2\omega) \right) 
$$

Note $r_y$ is always nonnegative. So $d = 1.1$ gives maximum $r_y$. Turns out $r_y$ and $\cos \omega$ squared are convex functions each w.r.t. $\omega$. $r_y^2 = (1 - d \cot  \omega)^2$. Second derivative is `2 d Csc[w]^4 (d (2 + Cos[2 w]) - Sin[2 w])`. This is definitely positive.

□

We are now ready to prove [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]].

_Proof._ (of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]]) We first show that at least one of $p_K(0) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$ or $p_K(\omega + \pi/2) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$ should be true. Assume the contrary. Then the cap $K$ is contained in $P_\omega$ and the half-planes $H_-(0, 1.1 + c_\omega)$ and $H_-(\omega + \pi/2, 1.1 + c_\omega)$. But the area of the intersection $K'$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^lem-cap-support-elementary-bound]] containing $K$ is already at most $2.2$. So we have $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) \leq |K| \leq |K'| \leq 2.2$, contradicting the assumption $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) > 2.2$.

So we have either $p_K(0) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$ or $p_K(\omega + \pi/2) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$. Appeal to the mirror reflection of $K$ and assume without loss of generality that $p_K(0) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$. Define $d := p_K(0) - c_\omega$, so that $d \geq 1.1$ in particular. We now have $A_K^-(0) = q_0$, where $q_0 := (c_\omega + d) u_0$ is defined in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]]. In particular, the point $q_0$ is in $K$.

Define the intersection $r := l_K(0) \cap l_K(\omega)$. $r, o_\omega, (d + c_\omega) u_0$ forms a right-angled triangle. Solving for the coordinates of $r$, we get $r = (d + c_\omega, r_y)$ where $r_y$ is defined as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]]. Since $K$ is a convex subset of $P_\omega$, we have $0 \leq r_y \leq 1$. Define $g := \sqrt{1 - r_y^2}$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]] and the point $s := q_0 - g u_0$, so that the triangle formed by the vertices $s, q_0, r$ is right-angled at $q_0$ with base $g$, height $r_y$ and the side of length 1. Observe $p_K(t) \leq r \cdot u_t$. So $p_K(t) - 1 \leq r \cdot u_t - 1 \leq r \cdot u_t - (r - s) \cdot u_t = s \cdot u_t$. So it should be that $s \not\in H_-^{\circ}(p_K(t) - 1, t)$ and $s$ is further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$. Now the edge connecting $s = q_0 - g u_0$ to $q_0 = A_K^-(0)$ is contained in the edge connecting $W_K(t)$ to $A_K^-(0)$, so $g \leq w_K(t)$. Take the infimum over all $t \in (0, \omega)$, and we get $g \leq w_K^{\circ}$.

As we defined $K$ from [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-main-balanced]], we have $w_K^{\circ} \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$. Define $q_1 := o_\omega - g u_0$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]], then as $o_\omega = C_K^-(0)$ is the rightmost vertex of $K$ on the edge $e_K(\pi/2)$, we also have $q_1 \in K$. 

We now have found the two points $q_0, q_1$ in $K$. So the set $X = \left\{ q_1, q_2 \right\}$ is a subset of $K$. From now on, fix $t = \pi/2 - \omega$ and take the quadrant $Q_X^-(t)$, then by $X \subset K$ we have $Q_X^-(t) \subseteq Q_K^-(t)$. So if we show that the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega$ are in $Q_X(t)$, then the proof is complete.

We want to show that the outer $a_X(t)$ of $L_X(t)$ passes $q_0$ and $c_X(t)$ of $L_X(t)$ passes $q_0$. Then by Proposition on representation of $Q_X^-(t)$, it turns out that $Q_X^-(t) = H_-^{\circ}(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1) \cap H_-^{\circ}(t + \pi/2, q_1 \cdot v_t - 1)$. To show $q_0 \in a_X(t)$ and $q_1 \in c_X(t)$, (...) When is two points $q_0, q_1$ lie in each of $a_X$ and $c_X$ ? When $q_1 = q_0 - (\geq 0) u_t + (\geq 0) v_t$. This is equivalent to $q_1 - q_0$ being spanned by $-u_t$ and $v_t$. Here we are observing that $q_1 - q_0 = -(g + d - 1)u_0 + (u_0 - v_0)$. 

We now show that the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0 = c_\omega u_0, o_\omega - u_\omega = c_\omega v_\omega$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^pro-omega-gap]]) are contained in the closure of $Q_X^-(t)$. Because $c_\omega > 0$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$, the points $c_\omega v_\omega, O, c_\omega u_0$ are successively further in the direction of $u_t$. So to show that the three points $O, c_\omega u_0, c_\omega v_\omega$ are in $H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$, it suffies to show that $c_\omega u_0 = o_\omega - v_0$ is in $H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$. This is true by (1) of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^lem-calculation-inequalities]]. Likewise, the points $c_\omega u_0, O, c_\omega v_\omega$ are successively further in the direction of $v_t$. So to show that the three points $O, c_\omega u_0, c_\omega v_\omega$ are in $H_-^{\circ}(t + \pi/2, q_1 \cdot v_t - 1)$, it suffies to show that $c_\omega v_\omega = o_\omega - u_\omega$ is in $H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$. This is true by (2) of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^lem-calculation-inequalities]]. So the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega$ are in the closure of $Q_X^-(t)$ and thus the closure of $Q_K^-(t)$, completing the proof. □
