We will assume without loss of generality that a moving sofa $S$ is in _standard position_ by translating it.

> __Definition [standard-position].__ A moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is in _standard position_ if $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$.
> ^def-standard-position

> __Proposition [standard-position-shape].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, there is a translation of $S$ in standard position which is (i) unique if $\omega < \pi/2$, or (ii) unique up to horizontal translations if $\omega = \pi/2$.
> ^pro-standard-position-shape

_Proof._ If $\omega < \pi/2$, there is a unique translation of $S$ making contact with two supporting lines $l(\omega, 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ from below. If $\omega = \pi/2$, there is a unique translation of $S$ making contact with the supporting line $l(\pi/2, 1)$ from below, up to horizontal translations. □

We put $S$ in standard position to ensure $S \subseteq H \cap V_\omega$.

> __Proposition [standard-position-strips].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, we have $S \subseteq H$ and $S \subseteq V_\omega$. ^pro-standard-position-strips

_Proof._ By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa#^pro-moving-sofa-common-subset]], the width of $S$ measured in the directions $u_{\omega}$ and $v_0$ are both at most one. This with $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$ implies $S \subseteq H$ and $S \subseteq V_\omega$. □

Define the intersection $\mathcal{I}$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa#^eqn-sofa-intersection]] of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa]] with the tangent hallways $L_t = L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [monotonization].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Define the intersection ^def-monotonization
$$
\mathcal{I}(S) = H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_S(t)
$$
> of strips $H, V_\omega$ and the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$.

We will establish the following theorem in this [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Intersection is Connected]].

> __Theorem [monotonization].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, $\mathcal{I}(S)$ is a moving sofa with the same rotation angle $\omega$ containing $S$, in standard position. With this, call the intersection $\mathcal{I}(S)$ of some moving sofa $S$ a _monotone sofa_. ^thm-monotonization

So any moving sofa $S$ maximal under the set inclusion $\subset$ should be a monotone sofa in particular.

# Proof of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Intersection is Connected#^thm-monotonization]]

In the following proof of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Intersection is Connected#^thm-monotonization]], we assume an arbitrary moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position.

> __Proposition [monotonization-contains-sofa].__ $S \subseteq \mathcal{I}(S)$. ^pro-monotonization-contains-sofa

_Proof._ Consequence of  □

> __Corollary [monotonization-is-larger].__ $\mathcal{M}(S) \supseteq S$ for any moving sofa $S$ in standard position. ^cor-monotonization-is-larger

We will establish the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-connected].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Then the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected. ^thm-monotonization-is-connected

Once the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is established, we can immediately show that the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is a moving sofa containing the initial moving sofa $S$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ is a moving sofa containing $S$ with the same rotation angle $\omega$ in standard position. ^thm-monotonization-is-sofa

_Proof._ By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]], the shape $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected. By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotonization]], the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is contained $P_\omega$ and $L_S(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$, so it satisfies the second condition of [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]]. So the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$. $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]]. From $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq P_\omega$ and
$$
p_S(\omega) = p_{P_\omega}(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = p_{P_\omega}(\pi/2) = 1
$$
we have $p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega) = p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\pi/2) = 1$. So $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is in standard position. □


We prepare the following terminologies.

> __Definition [cap-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Define the set ^def-cap-sofa
$$
\mathcal{C}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t).
$$

> __Definition [closed-in-direction].__ Say that a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ is _closed in the direction of_ vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if, for any $x \in X$ and $\lambda \geq 0$, we have $x + \lambda v \in X$. ^def-closed-in-direction

> __Definition [line-half-plane-directions].__ Any line $l$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ divides the plane into two half-planes. If $l$ is not parallel to the $y$-axis, call the _left side_ (resp. _right side_) of $l$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l$ containing the point $- Nu_0$ (resp. $Nu_0$) for a sufficiently large $N$. If a point $p$ is on the left (resp. right) side of $l$ and not on the boundary $l$, we say that $p$ is _strictly on the left_ (resp. _right_) _side_ of $l$. ^def-line-half-plane-directions

We also prepare a lemma.

> __Lemma [cap-same-support-function].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Then the support functions $p_S$, $p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}$, and $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}$ of $S$, $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and $\mathcal{C}(S)$ agree on the set $J_\omega$. ^lem-cap-same-support-function

_Proof._ We have $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]] and $L_S(t) \subset Q_S^+(t)$. So it remains to show $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t) \leq p_S(t)$ for every $t$ in $J_\omega$. By the definition of $\mathcal{C}(S)$ we have $S \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq H_S(t)$. So we have $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t) \leq p_S(t)$ indeed. □

A moving sofa $S$ and its cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ shares the same tangent hallways $L_S(t) = L_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t)$.

> __Proposition [cap-same-tangent-hallway].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ of $S$ and the tangent hallway $L_K(t)$ of set $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ are equal for every $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^pro-cap-same-tangent-hallway

_Proof._ The tangent hallways $L_X(t)$ of $X = S, K$ depend solely on the values of the support function $p_X$ of $X$ on $J_\omega$, by the equation of $L_X(t)$ in [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway]]. The support functions of $S$ and $K$ match on the set $J_\omega$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], so the result follows. □

We are now ready to show that $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected.

_Proof._ (of [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]]) Define the set $X := \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t)$. By plugging the equation $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ to [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotonization]], we have $\mathcal{M}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S) \setminus X$. Observe that $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is a convex body containing $S$ (say, by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]] and $\mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$).

Fix an arbitrary point $p$ in $\mathcal{M}(S)$. Take an arbitrary angle $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$. Observe that the set $X = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^-_S(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-closed-in-direction]]) for all angle $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, since each $Q_S^-(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$. Take the line $l_\theta$ passing the point $p$ in the direction of $u_\theta$. The set $s_\theta = l_\theta \cap \mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $p$, and $s_\theta$ is a nonempty line segment because $s_\theta$ is the line segment $l_\theta \cap \mathcal{C}(S)$ minus the half-line $l_\theta \setminus X$. If the line $l_\theta$ meets $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, then $p$ is connected to $S$ along the line segment $s_\theta$ inside $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and the proof is done. Our goal now is to prove that there is some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ such that $l_\theta$ meets $S$.

Assume by contradiction that for every $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$. By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], we have $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(t) = l_S(t)$ for every $t \in J_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. Because $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\pi/2}$ passing through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(0) = l_S(0)$ or strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$. If $l_{\pi/2} = l_S(0)$ then $l_{\pi/2}$ contains some point of $S$ contradicting our assumption. So the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$. Likewise, as $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\omega}$ that passes through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega + \pi/2) = l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ or strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$. The line $l_\omega$ cannot be equal to $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ because we assumed that $l_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$. So the line $l_{\omega}$ is strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_{\omega}$.

Because the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, the set $S$ is inside the set $Y = \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \bigcup_{\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]} l_\theta$. Note that $Y$ has exactly two connected components $Y_L$ and $Y_R$ on the left and the right side of the lines $l_\theta$ respectively. As there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$ (resp. the left side of $l_\omega$), the set $S \cap Y_R$ (resp. $S \cap Y_L)$ is nonempty. We get contradiction as $S$ should be a connected subset of $Y$. □