Here, we show that any monotone sofa $S$ is equal to its _cap_ $K$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]]) minus _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^def-niche]]).

# Cap of a Monotone Sofa

> __Definition [cap].__ A _cap_ $K$ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> 1. $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\omega + \pi) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$.
> 2. $K$ is an intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-half-plane]]) in $J_\omega \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ (where $J_\omega$ is from [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-set-j]]).

> __Definition [parallelogram].__ Let $O = (0, 0)$ be the origin. For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, define $P_\omega := H \cap V_\omega$ and $o_\omega := (\tan(\omega/2), 1)$. ^def-parallelogram

Note that if $\omega < \pi/2$, then $O$ and $o_\omega = l(\omega, 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ are the lower-left and upper-right corner of the parallelogram $P_\omega$ respectively.

> __Theorem [cap-hallway-intersection].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, the set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-cap-sofa]] is a cap with rotation angle $\omega$ as in [[#^def-cap]]. With this, call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the _cap of the moving sofa_ $S$. ^thm-cap-hallway-intersection

_Proof._ The second condition of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^def-cap]] on $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is satisfied by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-cap-sofa]]. Since $S$ is in standard position, it suffices to check $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(\omega + \pi) = p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(3\pi/2) = 0$ in the first condition of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^def-cap]].

We first prove the case $\omega = \pi/2$. Since $p_S(\pi/2) = 1$, we can take a point $q \in S \cap l(\pi/2, 1) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2]$, each $Q_S^+(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$. This with $q \in \mathcal{C}(S)$ implies that $q - v_0 \in \mathcal{C}(S)$. Note that $q - v_0 \in l(\pi/2, 0)$, so $q - v_0 \in \mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq P_{\pi/2}$ implies $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(3\pi/2) = 0$ as we desired.

We now prove the case $\omega < \pi/2$. Since $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$, we can take two points $q_\omega \in S \cap l(\omega, 1)$ and $q_{\pi/2} \in S \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$. Observe that the three points $q_\omega, o_\omega, q_{\pi/2}$ form an angle of $\omega + \pi/2$. Take any tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ with angle $t \in [0, \omega]$. Then $Q_S^+(t)$ should contain both $q_\omega, q_{\pi/2} \in S$, so we also have $Q_S^+(t) \ni o_\omega$. This implies $o_\omega \in \mathcal{C}(S)$. Note that for any $t \in [0, \omega]$, each $Q_S^+(t)$ is closed in the direction of $v_0$ and $u_\omega$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-closed-in-direction]]). So $o_\omega \in \mathcal{C}(S)$ implies $o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega \in \mathcal{C}(S)$. This with $\mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq P_\omega$ implies $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(\omega + \pi) = p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(3\pi/2) = 0$ as we desired. □

A moving sofa $S$ and its monotone sofa $\mathcal{I}(S)$ shares the same cap.

> __Proposition [monotonization-cap].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, we have $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{M}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S)$. ^pro-monotonization-cap

_Proof._ By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] and [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-rotating-hallway-parts]], the set $\mathcal{C}(X)$ of $X = S$ or $\mathcal{M}(S)$ depend only on the values of the support function $p_X$ on $J_\omega$. The support functions of $S$ and $\mathcal{M}(S)$ match on $J_\omega$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], completing the proof. □

# Niche of a Monotone Sofa

> __Definition [fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _fan_ $F_\omega := H_+(\pi, 0) \cap H_+(\pi/2, 0)$. ^def-fan

Note that $F_\omega$ contains $H \cap V_\omega$ in particular.

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) := F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_K(t).
$$

We establish the structure of any monotone sofa $\mathcal{I}(S)$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-structure].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotone sofa $\mathcal{I}(S)$ from $S$ is equal to $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ where $K := \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$. ^thm-monotonization-structure

_Proof._ By breaking down each $L_S(t)$ into $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, the set $\mathcal{I}(S)$ of $S$ can be represented as the following subtraction of two sets. ^eqn-monotonization
$$
\begin{split}
\mathcal{M}(S) & = H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_S(t) \\
& = \left( H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^-_S(t) \right)
\end{split}
$$
By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^lem-cap-same-support-function]] we have $Q_S^-(t) = Q_K^-(t)$. So we have $\mathcal{M}(S) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ by the definitions of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$. □

The definition of a monotone sofa $\mathcal{I}(S)$ depends on another moving sofa $S$. 

> __Theorem [monotone-sofa-structure].__ Let $S$ be any monotone sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Then $S$ is in standard position and $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K := \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$, and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of the cap $K$.
> ^thm-monotone-sofa-structure

_Proof._ Let $S = \mathcal{M}(S')$ be any monotone sofa, so that it is the monotonization of a moving sofa $S'$ in standard position. Then $K := \mathcal{C}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S')$ by [[#^pro-monotonization-cap]]. Now apply [[#^thm-monotonization-structure]] to $\mathcal{M}(S')$ to conclude that $S = \mathcal{M}(S') = \mathcal{C}(S') \setminus \mathcal{N}(\mathcal{C}(S')) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$. □

Monotization $S \mapsto \mathcal{M}(S)$ is a process that enlarges any moving sofa $S$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]]. Moreover, if $S$ is already monotone (so that $S = \mathcal{M}(S')$ for some $S'$), then the monotonization fixes $S$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-fixpoint].__ For any monotone sofa $S$, we have $\mathcal{M}(S) = S$.
> ^thm-monotonization-fixpoint

_Proof._ Since $S$ is monotone, $S = \mathcal{M}(S')$ for some other moving sofa $S'$. Now check
$$
\mathcal{M}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S) \setminus \mathcal{N}(\mathcal{C}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S') \setminus \mathcal{N}(\mathcal{C}(S')) = \mathcal{M}(S') = S
$$
which holds from [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotonization-structure]] and [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^pro-monotonization-cap]]. □

Thus, the monotonization $S \mapsto \mathcal{M}(S)$ can be said as a 'projection' from all moving sofas to monotone sofas, in the sense that $\mathcal{M}$ is a surjective map that fixes monotone sofas.