# Parts of Cap and Niche

We now define the parts of an arbitrary cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-vertices].__ Let $K$ be a cap with rotation angle $\omega$. For any $t \in [0, \omega]$, define the _vertices_ $A^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t)$, $A^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t)$,  $C^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t + \pi/2)$, and $C^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t + \pi/2)$ of $K$. ^def-cap-vertices

Note that the outer wall $a_K(t)$ (resp. $c_K(t)$) of $L_K(t)$ is in contact with the cap $K$ at the vertices $A_K^+(t)$ and $A_K^-(t)$ (resp. $C_K^+(t)$ and $C_K^-(t)$) respectively. We also define the _upper boundary_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [upper-boundary-of-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the _upper boundary_ $\delta K$ of $K$ as the set $\delta K = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]} e_K(t)$. ^def-upper-boundary-of-cap

For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, the upper boundary $\delta K$ is exactly the points of $K$ making contact with the outer walls $a_K(t)$ and $c_K(t)$ of tangent hallways $L_K(t)$ for every $t \in [0, \omega]$. We collect some observations on $\delta K$.

> __Proposition [upper-boundary-interior].__ Let $K$ be a cap with rotation angle $\omega$. The set $\delta K$ is the boundary of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$. ^pro-upper-boundary-interior

_Proof._ Let $X$ be the boundary of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$. We first show $\delta K \subseteq X$. Take any point $z$ of $\delta K$. Then $z \in e_K(t)$ for some $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$. Since $K$ is a planar convex body, for any $\epsilon > 0$ the point $z' = z + \epsilon \mu_t$ is not in $K$. This with $z \in K$ implies $z \in X$. We now show $X \subseteq \delta K$. Assume by contrary that there is a point $z \in X \setminus \delta K$. Then for every $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$ we have $z \not \in e_K(t)$ so that $z$ is in the interior of $g_K(t)$. So an open ball $U$ of radius $\epsilon$ centered at $z$ is contained in the half-space $g_K(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$. Now $U \cap F_\omega \subseteq K$ and so $z \not\in X$, leading to contradiction. □

> __Proposition [upper-boundary-connected].__ For any cap $K$, its upper boundary $\delta K$ is connected. ^pro-upper-boundary-connected

_Proof._ (Modification of [@voneitzenAnswerConnectednessBoundary2015]) Let $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ be the rotation angle of $K$. We show that without loss of generality, it can be assumed that a neighborhood of $O$ is disjoint from $\delta K$. If $\omega < \pi/2$ then this is true already. If $\omega = \pi/2$, let $d$ be the width of $K$ along the $x$-axis. If $d = 0$ then $K$ should be a vertical segment of length 1, for which $\delta K$ is connected. If $d > 0$, then we can translate $K$ horizontally so that the edge $e_K(3\pi/2)$ contains $O$ inside.

Now assume that a neighborhood of $O$ is disjoint from $\delta K$. Let $X$ be the set of all unit vectors $\mu_t$ with $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$. The map $f : \delta K \to X$ defined as $f(z) = z / |z|$ is then continuous. The map $f$ is bijective: for any $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$, the unique point $z \in \delta K$ mapped to $\mu_t = f(z)$ is the endpoint of $K \cap l(t + \pi/2, 0)$ which is not $O$. By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^pro-upper-boundary-interior]], the set $\delta K$ is compact, so $f$ as a continuous bijection between compact sets is a homeomorphism. Now $\delta K$ is homeomorphic to $[0, \omega + \pi/2]$ and is connected. □

We now define the notions on the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [wedge].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$, define $T_K(t) = F_\omega \cap Q^-_K(t)$ as the _wedge_ of $K$ with angle $t$. ^def-wedge

> __Proposition [wedge].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, we have $\mathcal{N}(K) = \cup_{t \in (0, \omega)} T_K(t)$. ^pro-wedge

_Proof._ Immediate from [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^def-niche]]. □

> __Definition [wedge-endpoints].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$, define $W_K(t)$ as the intersection of lines $b_K(t)$ and $l(\pi/2, 0)$, and define $Z_K(t)$ as the intersection of lines $d_K(t)$ and $l(\omega, 0)$. ^def-wedge-endpoints

Note that if the wedge $T_K(t)$ contains the origin $O$, then $T_K(t)$ is a quadrilateral with vertices $O, W_K(t), Z_K(t)$, and $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, and the points $W_K(t)$ and $Z_K(t)$ are the leftmost and rightmost point of $\overline{T_K(t)}$ respectively.

> __Definition [wedge-side-lengths].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$, define the _right wedge gap_ $w_K(t) := (A_K^-(0) - W_K(t)) \cdot u_0$ with angle $t$, which is the signed distance from $W_K(t)$ to $A_K^-(0)$ along the line $l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$. Likewise, define the _left wedge gap_ $z_K(t) = (C_K^+(\omega) - Z_K(t)) \cdot v_\omega$ with angle $t$, which is the signed length from $Z_K(t)$ to $C_K^+(\omega)$ along the line $l(\omega, 0)$ in the direction of $v_\omega$. ^def-wedge-side-lengths

# Mirror Reflection

We introduce the notion of reflecting a cap $K$ that will reduce symmetric arguments without loss of generality.

> __Definition [mirror-reflection].__ Let $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ be arbitrary. Define $M_\omega : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the reflection of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that maps $u_0$ to $v_\omega$ and $v_0$ to $u_\omega$. For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the _mirror reflection_ $K^\mathrm{m} := M_\omega(K)$ of $K$. ^def-mirror-reflection

Many definitions on $K$ are symmetric along the reflection $M_\omega$.

> __Proposition [mirror-reflection].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. The parts of tangent hallway $L_K(t)$, cap $K$, and niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ are equivariant under $M_\omega$. That is, for any $t \in [0, \omega]$: ^pro-mirror-reflection
> 
> - $?_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(t) = M_\omega(?_K(\omega - t))$ for $? = L, \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, a, b, c, d, W, Z$.
> - $A^{\pm}_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(t) = M_\omega(C^{\mp}_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(\omega - t))$ and $C^{\pm}_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(t) = M_\omega(A^{\mp}_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(\omega - t))$.
> - $w_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(t) = z_K(\omega - t)$ and $z_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(t) = w_K(\omega - t)$.
> - $\delta K^{\mathrm{m}} = M_\omega(\delta K)$, $T_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(t) = M_\omega(T_{K}(\omega - t))$, and $\mathcal{N}(K^{\mathrm{m}}) = M_\omega(\mathcal{N}(K))$.
> - $\sigma_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(E) = \sigma_{K}(\omega + \pi/2 - E)$ for any $E \subseteq S^1$. 

_Proof._ Check the symmetry of the definition of each. For the surface area measure $\sigma_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}$, use (4.14), p215 of [@schneider_2013]. □

> __Remark [mirror-symmetry].__ We use the mirror reflection of a cap in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^def-mirror-reflection]] and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^pro-mirror-reflection]] extensively to exploit the symmetry without loss of generality. For example, say we want to show both $w_K(t) > 0$ and $z_K(t) > 0$ for arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$. Then it suffices to show the case $w_K(t) > 0$, as the symmetric case $z_K(t) = w_{K^{\mathrm{m}}}(\omega - t) > 0$ follows by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^pro-mirror-reflection]]. ^rem-mirror-symmetry

# Cap Contains Niche

We now show that for any monotone sofa $S$, its cap $K$ contains the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]]). The positivity of $w_K(t)$ and $z_K(t)$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]] is important in establishing $\mathcal{N}(K) \subset K$.

> __Definition [further-in-direction].__ Say that a point $p_1$ is _further than_ (resp. _strictly further than_) the point $p_2$ _in the direction_ of nonzero vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if $p_1 \cdot v \geq p_2 \cdot v$ (resp. $p_1 \cdot v > p_2 \cdot v$). ^def-further-in-direction

> __Theorem [wedge-ends-in-cap].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. For any angle $t \in (0, \omega)$, we have $w_K(t), z_K(t) > 0$. ^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap

_Proof._ By mirror symmetry ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^rem-mirror-symmetry]]), it suffices to show $w_K(t) > 0$. We need to show that the point $A_K^-(0)$ is strictly further than the point $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ ([[#^def-further-in-direction]]). The point $q := a_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ is strictly further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$, because the lines $a_K(t)$ and $b_K(t)$ form the boundary of a unit-width vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $t$. The points $q = l_K(t) \cap l_K(\pi/2)$, $A_K^-(t), A_K^-(0)$ are consecutively further in the direction of $u_0$ because $K$ is a convex body, completing the proof. □

> __Lemma [niche-in-cap].__ Fix any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$. If the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in $K$, then the wedge $T_K(t)$ is a subset of $K$. ^lem-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ Assume $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$. If $\omega = \pi/2$, then by $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$ the wedge $T_K(t)$ is the triangle with vertices $W_K(t)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, and $Z_K(t)$ in counterclockwise order. Also $W_K(t)$ is further than $Z_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ ([[#^def-further-in-direction]]). This with $w_K(t), z_K(t) > 0$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]]) implies that all the three vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$.

If $\omega < \pi/2$, we divide the proof into four cases on whether the origin $O = (0, 0)$ lies strictly below the lines $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$ or not respectively.

- If $O$ lies on or above both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then the corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ should be outside $F_\omega^\circ$ and this contradicts $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above $b_K(t)$ but lies strictly below $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a triangle with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the intersection $p := l(\omega, 0) \cap b_K(t)$ in clockwise order, with the point $p$ on the line segment connecting $Z_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. As $z_K(t) > 0$ ([[#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]]) the point $Z_K(t)$ lies in the segment connecting $C^+_K(\omega)$ and the origin $(0, 0)$. So the vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t), Z_K(t), p$ of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$, showing $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below $b_K(t)$ but lies on or above $d_K(t)$, apply the previous case to the mirror reflection $K^{\mathrm{m}}$ and reflect back ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^rem-mirror-symmetry]]).
- If $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a quadrilateral with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$, $W_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. As $w_K(t) > 0$ (resp. $z_K(t) > 0$) by [[#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $W_K(t)$ (resp. $Z_K(t)$) is in the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $A^-_K(0)$ (resp. $C^+_K(\omega)$). So all vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$ and  $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.

□

> __Lemma [cap-ends-not-in-niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. Then $A^-_K(0), C^+_K(\omega) \in K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$. ^lem-cap-ends-not-in-niche

_Proof._ We only need to show that $A^-_K(0), C^+_K(\omega)$ are not in $\mathcal{N}(K)$. That is, for any $t \in (0, \omega)$, neither points are in $T_K(t)$. Since $w_K(t) > 0$ by [[#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $A_K^-(0)$ is on the right side of the boundary $b_K(t)$ of $T_K(t)$. So $A_K^-(0) \not\in T_K(t)$. Similarly, $z_K(t) > 0$ implies $C_K^+(\omega) \not\in T_K(t)$. □

We identify the exact condition where $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$ for a general cap $K$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-connected-iff].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Then the followings are all equivalent. ^thm-monotonization-connected-iff
> 
> 1. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$
> 2. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K \setminus \delta K$
> 3. For every $t \in (0, \omega)$, either $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \not\in F_\omega^\circ$ or $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$.
> 4. The set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected.
> 5. $K$ is the cap of a monotone sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$.

_Proof._ (1) and (2) are equivalent because the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is open in the subset topology of $F_\omega$ by [[#^def-niche]], and the set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$ by [[#^pro-upper-boundary-interior]].

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) We will prove the contraposition and assume $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$. Then a neighborhood of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $F_\omega$ and disjoint from $K$, so a subset of $T_K(t)$ is outside $K$ and $\mathcal{N}(K) \not\subseteq K \setminus \delta K$. (3 $\Rightarrow$ 1) If $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \not \in F_\omega^\circ$ then $T_K(t)$ is an empty set. If $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$ then by [[#^lem-niche-in-cap]] we have $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 4) As $\delta K$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$, we have $\delta K \subseteq S$. We show that $S$ is connected. The set $\delta K$ is connected by [[#^pro-upper-boundary-connected]]. Take any point $p \in S$. Take the half-line $r$ starting from $p$ in the upward direction $v_0$. Then $r$ touches a point in $\delta K$ as $p \in K$. Moreover, $r$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$ as the set $\mathcal{N}(K) \cup (\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega)$ is closed in the direction $-v_0$ ([[#^def-closed-in-direction]]). Now $r \cap K$ is a line segment inside $S$ connecting arbitrary $p \in S$ to a point in $\delta K$. So $S$ is connected.

(4 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Assume by contradiction that $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ for some $t \in (0, \omega)$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and direction $v_0$ is disjoint from $K$, as $F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ is closed in the direction $v_0$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and the opposite direction $-v_0$ is not in $S$, as $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is the corner of $Q_K^-(t)$, and $Q_K^-(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$. So the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ in the direction of $v_0$ is disjoint from $S$.

By $z_K(t) > 0$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^{\circ}$, the points $C_K^+(\omega)$, $Z_K(t)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ are consecutively strictly further in the direction of $u_0$. Likewise, by $w_K(t) > 0$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^{\circ}$, the points $\mathbf{x}_K(t), W_K(t), A_K^-(0)$ are consecutively strictly further in the direction of $u_0$. So the point $C_K^+(\omega)$ lies strictly left to $l$, and $A_K^-(0)$ lies strictly right to $l$. By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^lem-cap-ends-not-in-niche]] we have $C_K^+(\omega), A_K^-(0) \in S$, and this with $S$ disjoint from $l$ contradicts that that $S$ is connected. □

> __Theorem [niche-in-cap].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Then $K$ is the cap of a monotone sofa if and only if $\mathcal{N}(K)$ contains $K$. ^thm-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ Assume first that $K$ is the cap of a monotone sofa $S$. We have $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]. In particular, $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is a moving sofa so it is connected. Since (4) implies (1) in [[#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]] we have $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$.

Now assume that $\mathcal{N}(K)$ contains $K$. Then the set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected by (4) of [[#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]]. We have $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_K(t)$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^eqn-monotonization]]. Now see the movement of $L_K(t)$ containing $S$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$ in persepective of $S$ to show that $S$ is a moving sofa ($S \subseteq P_\omega$ and $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ implies that $S$ moves from $L_H$ to $L_V$). By (2) of [[#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]] we have $\delta K \subseteq S \subseteq K$. So $p_S$ and $p_K$ agree on $J_\omega$, and we have $\mathcal{C}(S) = K$. Now $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K) = \mathcal{I}(S)$ by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] and $S$ is monotone by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotone-sofa-fixpoint]]. □

> __Remark [niche-not-in-cap].__ Not all cap $K$ contains its niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. For example, take $K = [0, 100] \times [0, 1]$ with rotation angle $\omega = \pi/2$. Then $K$ is too wide and so the inner quadrant $Q_K^-(\pi/4)$ of $L_K(\pi/4)$ pushes out of $K$, making $\mathcal{N}(K) \not\subseteq K$. In particular, by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]] this $K$ can never be the cap of a monotone sofa with rotation angle $\pi/2$. ^rem-niche-not-in-cap