In 1966, Leo Moser posed the following _moving sofa problem_.

> What is the planar shape of maximum area that can be moved around a right-angled corner in a hallway of unit width?

More precisely, define the right-angled hallway $L$ of unit width as the union $L = L_H \cup L_V$ where $L_H = (-\infty, 1] \times [0, 1]$ and $L_V = [0, 1] \times (-\infty, 1]$ are the horizontal and vertical sides of $L$ respectively. A _sofa_ is a connected, nonempty and compact subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that can be moved around the corner from $L_H$ to $L_V$ by a continuous rigid motion inside $L$. 

Two well-known examples of a sofa are Hammersley's sofa and Gerver's sofa. Hammersley's sofa consists of two unit radius quarter-circles and a rectangular block of width $4/\pi$ carved out by a semicircular hole. It has an area of $2/\pi+\pi/2 = 2.2074\cdots$. On the other hand, Gerver's sofa, which is composed of three straight line segments, four circular arcs, and eleven analytic curves, has an area of $\mu_G = 2.2195\cdots$. Gerver derived his sofa by considering local optimality and conjectured that it has the maximum area possible. His sofa currently holds the record of largest known area.

It is known that a sofa of the maximum area $\mu_M$ exists. However, the exact value of $\mu_M$ is yet unknown. The work of Romik and Kallus shows the best upper bound $2.37$ known so far using an extensive computer-assisted approach. With this, the best known bounds on the maximum sofa area are the following.
$$\mu_G = 2.2195 \dots \leq \mu_M \leq 2.37$$

By looking at the movement in the perspective of the sofa, one can see the sofa as the intersection of rotating _hallways_ (see Figure \ref{fig:rotationpath}) and two stripes of width 1 representing the horizontal and vertical pathways of the sofa in $L$. Both Gerver's construction and Romik, Kallus's upper bound are based on this observation. 

The difficulty of finding the exact maximum sofa lies in the complexity of _how_ the hallways intersect. The rotating hallway has multiple sides that interact with each other in intricate ways, influencing which corners or sides of the hallway contribute directly to the shape of the sofa. Consequently, it is not possible to derive a single formula for the area that can be optimized. Indeed, Gerver had to assume five specific stages of the sofa movement _a priori_ to find a workable formula for the area.

In this paper, we present a line of attack towards the moving sofa problem that  circumvents the aforementioned difficulty.

In Section 1, we rigorously define what is a sofa and introduce basic concepts related to it. Additionally, we state fundamental geometric results that will be utilized throughout the paper. The proofs of these results are included in Appendix A.

In Section 2, we refine the idea that a maximum sofa $S$ is the intersection of rotating hallways $L_t$. By pushing each rotating hallway $L_t$ towards $S$ as much as possible, we can assume that a maximum sofa is a _monotone sofa_ where each $L_t$ always touches the sofa on its outer walls. A monotone sofa $S$ is made up of a cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ subtracted by the niche $N = \mathcal{N}(S)$. The cap $K$ is a convex set with the outer walls of the hallway as tangent lines. The niche $N$ is a union of the triangular wedges that are carved out by inner corners. 

This notion of monotone sofa serves two purposes. First, the notion separates the interactions of inner and outer walls of $L_t$, and makes the interaction of outer walls much simpler. With monotone sofas, it suffices to study the niche $N$ to understand the the complexity of the intersection. Second, we can give the space of monotone sofas a convex space structure. We can identify a monotone sofa $S$ with its cap $K$ as the niche $N$ is completely determined by the cap $K$. Then, the space $\mathcal{K}$ of caps.

In Section 3, we state the _injectivity hypothesis_, that there is a sofa of maximum area such that the inner corner $\mathbf{x}(t)$ of the rotating hallway does not self-intersect. Under this assumption, the area of the region $N_0$ bounded by the inner corner only is a lower bound of the area of the niche $N$. This gives an overestimate $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}_0(K)|$ of the actual area $\mathcal{A}(S) = |K| - |N|$. We show that the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ of the area $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ is convex. This is done by using Mamikon's theorem. We end this section with a brief sketch on 



%%
In Chapter 4, we provide brief outlines of our planned approach to tackle Gerver's conjecture, which asserts that Gerver's sofa indeed achieves the maximum area. 
- We begin by presenting a strategy for proving the injectivity theorem, which we have developed using `SofaDesigner`, a software that aids in the proof. 
- Additionally, we introduce the _structure hypothesis_ and explain how it can be utilized to establish an upper bound that matches the area of Gerver's sofa. 
We present these ideas to demonstrate our contributions to the problem and to illustrate how our current work fits into the larger context of existing research. We note that this article is subject to modifications or possible failure of the attack as our research progresses.
%%

%%
In this sense, the problem can be seen as an instance of _inverse Kakeya problem_: given a shape $L \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$, what is the largest area of the intersection $S$ of translated rotations of $L$? 
%%