In Theorem 1 of [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]], Gerver defined a subset $\mathcal{T}$ of moving sofas and showed that a moving sofa of maximum area exists in $\mathcal{T}$. In this section, we follow his idea of constructing $\mathcal{T}$ and call the sofas in $\mathcal{T}$ as _monotone sofas_. So we can assume that there is a moving sofa $S_{\text{max}}$ of maximum area which is also a monotone sofa. On top of Gerver's work, we also show that any monotone sofa $S$ consists of a convex set $K$ (called the _cap_ of $S$) subtracted by a set $\mathcal{N}(K)$ (called the _niche_ of $K$) determined by $K$. Finally, for any monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K$, we show that the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is contained in the cap $K$.

Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. By looking at the movement of $S$ inside the hallway $L$ in the perspective of $S$, Gerver observed that the fixed $S$ is contained inside the hallways rotating around $S$. Furthermore, he actually showed that a shape $S$ being a common subset of rotating hallways is also sufficient for $S$ to be a moving sofa.

> __Theorem [moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection].__ Let $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ be an arbitrary angle. For a connected shape $S$, the followings are equivalent. ^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection
> 
> - $S$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$.
> - $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$. Moreover, for every $t \in [0, \omega]$, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$, the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$.

To prove [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]], we introduce another idea of Gerver. Assume that a shape $S$ is contained in a translation $L'$ of $R_t(L)$, so that $L'$ is a hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$. Then we can push $L'$ towards $S$ until the outer walls of $L'$ touch $S$.

> __Definition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let the _tangent hallway_ $L_S(t)$ of $S$ with angle $t$ be the unique translation of $R_t(L)$ that touches $S$ in the outer walls (the walls corresponding to $a$ and $c$ of $L$). ^def-tangent-hallway

The pushed hallway $L' = L_S(t)$ still contains $S$.

> __Proposition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ contained in a translation of the hallway $R_t(L)$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t \in S^1$, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ with angle $t$ contains $S$. ^pro-tangent-hallway

We omit the proof of [[01. Monotone Sofas#^pro-tangent-hallway]], but note that it depends on the fact that the hallway is rotated exactly by $90^\circ$. We are now ready to prove [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]].

_Proof._ (of [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]])

($\Rightarrow$) Consider the movement of $S$ inside the hallway $L$. For any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$, there is a moment where the sofa $S$ is rotated clockwise by an angle of $t$ and contained in $L$. Looking at this in perspective of the sofa, $S$ is contained in some translation of $L$ rotated _counterclockwise_ by arbitrary $t \in [0, \omega]$. Likewise, by looking at the initial (resp. final) position of $S$ inside $L_H$ (resp. $L_V$) in perspective of $S$, the set $S$ is contained in both a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$.

($\Leftarrow$) The position of the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ depends only on the values $p_S(t)$ and $p_S(t + \pi / 2)$ of the support function $p_S$ of $S$. As $p_S$ is continuous, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ moves continuously with respect to $t \in [0, \omega]$. Let $f_t$ be the rigid transformation that sends $L_S(t)$ to $L$. Then the transformation $f_t(S)$ of $S$ moves continuously with respect to $t$, and is inside $L$ by [[01. Monotone Sofas#^pro-tangent-hallway]]. Because $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$, the width of $S$ measured in the direction of $v_0$ is at most 1. So $S$ is contained in the horizontal side of $L_S(0)$, and by mapping it under $f_0$ we have $f_0(S) \subseteq L_H$. Likewise, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_\omega(V)$, so the width of $S$ measured in the direction of $v_\omega$ is at most 1. Thus $S$ is contained in the vertical side of $L_S(\omega)$, and by mapping it under $f_\omega$ we have $f_\omega(S) \subseteq L_V$. □

The next idea of Gerver was to enlarge a moving sofa $S$ of rotation angle $\omega$ by intersecting the stripes $H$, $R_\omega(V)$ and the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ for each $t \in [0, \omega]$ containing $S$. We call this intersection as the _monotonization_ of $S$. In this paper, we translate $S$ before taking the intersection without loss of generality, so that it satisfies $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. By doing so, we can assume that $S$ is contained in $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$ touching the upper edges of two stripes.

> __Definition [monotonization].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa rotation angle $\omega$ such that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Define the _monotonization_ of $S$ as the intersection ^def-monotonization
$$
\mathcal{M}(S) = H \cap R_\omega(V) \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t).
$$

The immediate consequence of [[01. Monotone Sofas#^pro-tangent-hallway]] is the following.

> __Corollary [monotonization-contains].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ satisfying $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$, its monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$. ^cor-monotonization-contains

Gerver claimed that the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ a moving sofa $S$ is also a moving sofa, because $\mathcal{M}(S)$ satisfies the second condition of [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]]. With this, he defined the collection $\mathcal{T}$ as simply the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of moving sofas. However, he did not show that the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected, which is necessary for $\mathcal{M}(S)$ to be a moving sofa. In this paper, we fix his argument by proving that $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is indeed connected.

Proving the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ requires a bit of work. We first need to understand the geometric structure of $\mathcal{M}(S)$. We begin by naming the parts of the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [rotating-hallway-parts].__ Let $Q^+ = (-\infty, 1]^2$ be the closed quarter-plane bounded by outer walls $a$ and $c$. Let $Q^- = (-\infty, 0)^2$ be the open quarter-plane bounded by inner walls $b$ and $d$, so that $L = Q^+ \setminus Q^-$. For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let $a_S(t), b_S(t), c_S(t), d_S(t), \mathbf{x}_S(t), \mathbf{y}_S(t), Q^+_S(t), Q^-_S(t)$ be the parts of $L_S(t)$ corresponding to the parts $a, b, c, d, \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$ respectively. ^def-rotating-hallway-parts

So we have $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ and $Q^+_S(t) = H_S(t) \cap H_S(t + \pi/2)$ in particular. We also define the following sets.

> __Definition [parallelogram-fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _parallelogram_ $P_\omega = H \cap R_\omega(V)$ with rotation angle $\omega$. If $\omega = \pi / 2$, then $P_\omega$ is the horizontal strip $H$. For any $\omega < \pi / 2$, let $p_{\omega} = l(\omega, 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ be the upper-right corner of $P_\omega$. Likewise, define the _fan_ $F_\omega = H(0, \pi+\omega) \cap H(0, 3\pi/2)$ as the convex cone bounded by the bottom edges of $P_\omega$. ^def-parallelogram-fan

By decomposition $L_S(t)$ into $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, we get the following representation of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ as the subtraction of two sets.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{M}(S) & = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t)  \\
& =
\left( P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t) \right)
\end{align*}
$$
The set $K = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t)$ is the convex set inside the parallelogram $P_\omega$ with the outer walls $a_S(t)$ and $c_S(t)$ as tangent lines. Imagine $K$ as a block of clay and rotate it around the hallway $L$ while touching the outer walls $a$ and $c$. Then the inner corner of $L$ carves out the set $N = F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t)$, and after the full rotation we obtain the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S) = K \setminus N$. We now give names to sets $K$ and $N$. First, $K$ will be called as the _cap_ of $S$ ([[01. Monotone Sofas#^pro-cap-hallway-intersection]]). We first define what a cap is.

> __Definition [cap].__ Let $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and $\Theta$ be a closed set such that $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. A _cap_ $K$ with _rotation angle_ $\omega$ and _angle set_ $\Theta$ is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> - $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\pi + \omega) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$. Geometrically, $K$ is contained in the parallelogram $P_\omega$ and touches all sides of $P_\omega$.
> - $K$ has angular support in the set $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$. That is, $K = \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$.

Our [[01. Monotone Sofas#^def-cap]] of cap is generalized to an arbitrary set $\Theta$ of angles for future use. In particular, we will later approximate a cap of full angle set $[0, \omega]$ by a polygonal cap of a finite angle set $\Theta$. We continue by definiting the cap of a moving sofa $S$.

> __Proposition [cap-hallway-intersection].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Assume without loss of generality that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Define $\mathcal{C}(S)$ as the following set.
$$
\mathcal{C}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t)
$$
> Then $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is a cap with the angle set $[0, \omega]$ according to [[01. Monotone Sofas#^def-cap]]. ^pro-cap-hallway-intersection

With [[01. Monotone Sofas#^pro-cap-hallway-intersection]], we can call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the _cap_ of $S$. We omit the proof but note that it only depends on the condition $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. The tangent hallways of a moving sofa $S$ are completely determined by its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ as the following.

> __Proposition [cap-same-support-function].__ Let $S$ be any hallway intersection with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$ such that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ be its cap. Then the support functions $p_S$ and $p_K$ have the same value on the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$. Consequently, the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ and $L_K(t)$ of $S$ and $K$ agree on any $t \in \Theta$. That is, $?_S(t) = ?_K(t)$ for any $? = a, b, c, d, \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$. ^pro-cap-same-support-function

With [[01. Monotone Sofas#^pro-cap-same-support-function]], we have $Q^-_S(t) = Q^-_K(t)$ in particular, and so we can define the set $N$ purely in terms of the cap $K$ as the following.

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Define the _wedge_ $T_K(t) = F_\omega \cap Q_K^-(t)$ of $K$ for any angle $t \in \Theta$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as the union of all wedges as the following. ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_K(t) = \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} T_K(t) 
$$

By summarizing the discussions so far, we have the following structure of a monotonization of a moving sofa.

> __Corollary [monotonization-eq].__ Let $S$ be any moving with rotation angle $\omega$ satisfying $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Then the monotonization of the hallway intersection $S$ is $\mathcal{M}(S) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of $K$. ^cor-monotonization-eq

We are now ready to show the connectedness of the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of a moving sofa $S$. To do so, we fix the following terminology.

> __Definition [closed-in-direction].__ Say that a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ is _closed in the direction of_ vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if, for any $x \in X$ and $\lambda \geq 0$, we have $x + \lambda v \in X$. ^def-closed-in-direction

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-sofa].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$ satisfying $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Then the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$ containing $S$. Moreover, the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ shares the same cap with $S$; that is, $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{M}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S)$. ^thm-monotonization-is-sofa

_Proof._ In this proof, we fix the angle set $\Theta = [0, \omega]$. We first show that the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected.

Fix an arbitrary point $p$ in $\mathcal{M}(S)$. Take the line $l_\theta$ passing $p$ that makes an angle of arbitrary $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ with the $x$-axis. Observe that $l_\theta \cap \mathcal{M}(S)$ is a nonempty line segment because $\bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_S(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$. So if any of the lines $l_\theta$ meets $S$, then $p$ is connected to $S$ inside $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and the proof is done. Our goal now is to prove that there is some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ such that $l_\theta$ meets $S$. Assume by contradiction that for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$.

As $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ and the support function of $S$ and $\mathcal{C}(S)$ agrees on the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$, the support function of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ also agrees with that of $S$ on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$. As $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(0) = l_S(0)$ or strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$. The line $l_{\pi/2}$ can't be equal to $l_S(0)$ because otherwise, $l_{\pi/2}$ contains some point of $S$ contradicting our assumption. So the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$.

Likewise, as $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\omega}$ that passes through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega + \pi/2) = l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ or strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$. The line $l_\omega$ cannot be equal to $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ as we assumed that $l_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$. So the line $l_{\omega}$ is strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_{\omega}$.

As the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, $S$ is inside the set $X = \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \bigcup_{\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]} l_\theta$. Note that the set $X$ has exactly two connected components $X_L$ and $X_R$ on left and right respectively. As there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$, $S \cap X_R$ is nonempty. As there is also a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_\omega$, $S \cap X_L$ is nonempty. We get contradiction as $S$ is connected and a subset of $X$. 

As the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected, and satisfies the second condition of [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]] by definition, $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$. By [[01. Monotone Sofas#^cor-monotonization-contains]], the moving sofa $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$. We observed that the support function of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ agrees with that of $S$ on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$, so the cap of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is equal to the cap of $S$. □

> __Definition [monotone-sofa].__ With [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]], call any monotonization of any sofa a _monotone sofa_. ^def-monotone-sofa

As monotonizing a sofa never decreases its area, we can assume that a sofa $S$ of maximum area is monotone. Moreover, the monotone sofa $S$ is equal to its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ subtracted by its niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ by [[01. Monotone Sofas#^cor-monotonization-eq]] and [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]].

We will also show that for any monotone sofa $S$, its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ contains the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. This property turns out to be very important, as it allows us to understand the sofa area $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ separately in terms of the area of cap and niche separately. To do so, we need to prepare a set of definitions and lemmas regarding the cap $K$.

We define the vertices of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-vertices].__ Let $K$ be a cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. For any $t \in \Theta$, define the vertices $A^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t)$, $A^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t)$,  $C^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t + \pi/2)$, and $C^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t + \pi/2)$ of $K$. ^def-cap-vertices

Note that the outer wall $a_K(t)$ (resp. $c_K(t)$) of $L_K(t)$ touches the cap $K$ at the vertices $A_K^+(t)$ and $A_K^-(t)$ (resp. $C_K^+(t)$ and $C_K^-(t)$) respectively. We also define the _upper boundary_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [upper-boundary-of-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the _upper boundary_ $\delta K$ of $K$ as the set $\delta K = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]} e_K(t)$. ^def-upper-boundary-of-cap

Note that for a cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$, the upper boundary $\delta K$ is exactly the points touched by the outer walls of tangent hallways $L_K(t)$ touch $K$ for every $t \in \Theta$. Also note that unless $K$ is the vertical line segment $\left\{ 0 \right\}\times [0, 1]$, $K$ has nonempty interior and so $\delta K$ is a Jordan arc connecting the endpoints $v_K^-(0)$ and $v_K^+(\omega + \pi / 2)$.

For any cap $K$ and angle $t$, define the following values of the wedge $T_K(t) = K \cap Q_K^-(t)$ bounded by the inner walls $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$. 

> __Definition [cap-wedge-gap].__ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$.
> 
> Define the point $W_K(t)$ as the intersection of the line $l(\pi/2, 0)$ and $b_K(t)$. Define $w_K(t) = (v^-_K(0) - W_K(t))\cdot u_0$ as the distance between $W_K(t)$ and the right endpoint $v_K^-(0)$ of $\delta K$ along the $u_0$.
> 
> Likewise, define the point $Z_K(t)$ as the intersection of the line $l(\omega, 0)$ and $d_K(t)$. Define $z_K(t) = (v_K^+(\omega + \pi/2) - Z_K(t)) \cdot v_t$ as the distance between $Z_K(t)$ and the left endpoint $v_K^+(\omega + \pi/2)$ along the direction $v_\omega$. ^def-cap-wedge-gap

We show that $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. The values $w_K(t)$ and $z_K(t)$ will be important in later chapters.

> __Definition [further-in-direction].__ Say that a point $p_1$ is _further than_ the point $p_2$ _in the direction_ of vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if $p_1 \cdot v \geq p_2 \cdot v$. ^def-further-in-direction

> __Lemma [wedge-ends-in-cap].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. For any angle $t \in (0, \omega)$, we have $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. ^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap

_Proof._ To show that $w_K(t) \geq 0$, we need to show that the point $v_K^-(0)$ is further than the point $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. The point $q = a_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ is further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$, because the lines $a_K(t)$ and $b_K(t)$ form the boundary of a unit-width vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $t$. The point $A^-_K(t)$ is further than $q = a_K(t) \cap a_K(\pi/2)$ in the direction of $u_0$ because $K$ is a convex body. Finally, the point $A^-_K(0)$ is further than $A_K^-(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ again because $K$ is a convex body. Summing up, the points $W_K(t), q, A_K^-(t), A_K^-(0)$ are aligned in the direction of $u_0$, completing the proof. A symmetric argument in the direction of $v_\omega$ proves $z_K(t) \geq 0$. □

We factor out a part of the proof that $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$.

> __Lemma [niche-in-cap].__ Fix any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$. If the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in $K$, then the wedge $T_K(t)$ is a subset of $K$. ^lem-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ We divide the proof into four cases, on whether the origin $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below the lines $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$ or not respectively.

- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then the corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is outside the interior $F_\omega^\circ$ of fan $F_\omega$, and so $T_K(t)$ is an empty set.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above $b_K(t)$ but lies strictly below $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a triangle with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the intersection $p = l(\omega, 0) \cap b_K(t)$. In this case the point $p$ is in the line segment connecting $Z_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. Also, as $z_K(t) \geq 0$ ([[01. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]]) the point $Z_K(t)$ lies in the segment connecting $C^+_K(\omega)$ and the origin $(0, 0)$. So the points $\mathbf{x}_K(t), Z_K(t), p$ are in $K$ and by convexity of $K$ we have $T \subseteq K$.
- The case where $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below $b_K(t)$ but lies on or above $d_K(t)$ can be handed by an argument symmetric to the previous case.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a quadrilateral with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$, $W_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. As $w_K(t) \geq 0$ (resp. $z_K(t) \geq 0$) by [[01. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $W_K(t)$ (resp. $Z_K(t)$) is in the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $A^-_K(0)$ (resp. $C^+_K(\omega)$). So all the vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$, and $T_K(t)$ is in $K$ by convexity.

□

Now we prove [[01. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]].

> __Theorem [monotonization-connected-iff].__ Let $K$ be any cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. Then the followings are all equivalent. ^thm-monotonization-connected-iff
> 
> 1. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$
> 2. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K \setminus \delta K$
> 3. For any $t \in \Theta$, either $\mathbf{x}(t) \not\in F_\omega^\circ$ or $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$.
> 4. The set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected.

_Proof._ The conditions 1 and 2 are equivalent because the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is open in the subset topology of $F_\omega$, and the set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$.

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) We will prove the contraposition and assume $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$. Then a neighborhood of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $F_\omega$ and disjoint from $K$, so a portion of $T_K(t)$ is outside $K$, showing $\mathcal{N}(K) \not\subseteq K \setminus \delta K$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 1) If $\mathbf{x}(t) \not \in F_\omega^\circ$, then $T_K(t)$ is an empty set. If $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$, then by [[01. Monotone Sofas#^lem-niche-in-cap]] we have $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 4) As $\delta K$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$, we have $\delta K \subseteq S$. We show that $S$ is connected. First, $\delta K$ is connected ([[yy. Monotone Sofas#^cor-upper-boundary-arc]]). Next, take any point $p \in S$. Take the half-line $r$ starting from $p$ in the upward direction $v_0$. Then $r$ touches a point in $\delta K$ as $p \in K$. Moreover, $r$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$ as the set $\mathcal{N}(K) \cup (\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega)$ is closed in the direction $-v_0$. Now $r \cap K$ is a line segment inside $S$ that connects the arbitrarily chosen point $p \in S$ to a point in $\delta K$. So $S$ is connected.

(4 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Assume by contradiction that $\mathbf{x}(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ for some $t \in \Theta$. We first show that the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is disjoint from $S$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}(t)$ and direction $v_0$ is disjoint from $K$ as the set $F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ is closed in the direction of $v_0$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}(t)$ and direction $-v_0$ is not in $S$ because $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is the corner of $Q_K^-(t)$ and $Q_K^-(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$. So the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ does not overlap with $S$.

Now separate the horizontal strip $H$ into two chunks by the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$. As $S$ is connected, $S$ should lie either strictly on left or strictly on right of $l$. As $\mathbf{x}(t)$ lies strictly inside $F_\omega$, the point $W_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$, and by [[01. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] the point $A_K^-(0)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. So the endpoint $A_K^-(0)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the right side of $l$. Similarly, the points $Z_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$, and by [[01. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] the point $C_K^+(\omega)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$. So the endpoint $C^+_K(\omega)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the left side of $l$. As the endpoints $A^-_K(0)$ and $C^+_K(\omega)$ are in $\mathcal{M}(K)$ by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], and the line $l$ separates the two points, $l$ divides $\mathcal{M}(K)$ and so $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is disconnected. □

