In Theorem 1 of [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]], Gerver constructed a subset $\mathcal{T}$ of sofas and showed that a sofa of maximum area exists in $\mathcal{T}$. In this section, we rephrase his ideas and define our version of the subset $\mathcal{T}$ containing a maximum sofa. We will call an element of $\mathcal{T}$ as a _monotone sofa_. 

The main idea of Gerver was to see a moving sofa as an intersection of rotating hallways. Consider any moving sofa $S$ of rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Then for any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$, there is a moment where the sofa $S$ is rotated clockwise by an angle of $t$ and contained in $L$. Looking at this in perspective of the sofa, $S$ is contained in some translation of $L$ rotated _counterclockwise_ by arbitrary $t \in [0, \omega]$. Likewise, by looking at the initial and final position of $S$ in perspective of $S$, it is contained in both a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$. Summarizing, $S$ is a _hallway intersection_ with angle set $\Theta = [0, \omega]$ which we define as below.

> __Definition [hallway-intersection].__ Let $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and $\Theta$ be a closed set such that $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Call a connected shape $S$ a _hallway intersection_ with _rotation angle_ $\omega$ and _angle set_ $\Theta$ if the followings hold.
> ^def-hallway-intersection
> 
> - $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$.
> - For every $t \in \Theta$, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$, the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$.

We generalized [[01. Monotone Sofa#^def-hallway-intersection]] to an arbitrary set $\Theta$ of angles for future use. Gerver essentially showed that [[01. Monotone Sofa#^def-hallway-intersection]] with angle set $\Theta = [0, \omega]$ is equivalent to $S$ being a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$. That is, any hallway intersection $S$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$ admits a continuous sofa movement. Take the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t \in [0, \omega]$ containing $S$. His idea was to push the hallway towards $S$ until its outer walls touch $S$.

> __Definition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let the _tangent hallway_ $L_S(t)$ of $S$ with angle $t$ be the unique translation of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$ that touches $S$ in the outer walls. ^def-tangent-hallway

The pushed hallway also contains $S$. We omit the proof.

> __Proposition [tangent-hallway].__ For any hallway intersection $S$ with angle set $\Theta$, and for any $t \in \Theta$, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ contains $S$. ^pro-tangent-hallway

Note that [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-tangent-hallway]] holds because the hallway is rotated exactly $90^\circ$. If the angle of hallway was less than $90^\circ$, then [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-tangent-hallway]] fails. We are now ready to show the following.

> __Proposition [sofa-iff-hallway-intersection].__ A shape $S$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi / 2]$ if and only if $S$ is a hallway intersection with angle set $[0, \omega]$. ^pro-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection

_Proof._ The position of $L_S(t)$ depends only on the values $p_S(t)$ and $p_S(t + \pi / 2)$ of the support function $p_S$ of $S$. As $p_S$ is continuous, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ moves continuously with respect to $t \in [0, \omega]$. Let $f_t$ be the rigid transformation that sends $L_S(t)$ to $L$. Then as $f_t$ is continuous with respect to $t$, the transformation $f_t(S)$ of $S$ moves continuously with respect to $t$, and is inside $L$ by [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-tangent-hallway]]. Because $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$, the width of $S$ measured in the direction of $v_0$ is at most 1. So $S$ is contained in the horizontal side of $L_S(0)$, and by mapping it under $f_0$ we have $f_0(S) \subseteq L_H$. Likewise, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_\omega(V)$, so the width of $S$ measured in the direction of $v_\omega$ is at most 1. Thus $S$ is contained in the vertical side of $L_S(\omega)$, and by mapping it under $f_\omega$ we have $f_\omega(S) \subseteq L_V$. □

With [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-tangent-hallway]] and [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]], Gerver enlarged a moving sofa $S$ of rotation angle $\omega$ by intersecting the stripes $H$, $R_\omega(V)$ and the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. We call such intersection as the _monotonization_ of $S$. In this paper, we translate $S$ before taking the intersection without loss of generality so that it satisfies $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$.

> __Definition [monotonization].__ Let $S$ be any hallway intersection with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Define the _monotonization_ of $S$ as the intersection ^def-monotonization
$$
\mathcal{M}(S) = H \cap R_\theta(V) \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} L_S(t).
$$

A consequence of [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-tangent-hallway]] is the following.

> __Corollary [monotonization-contains].__ For any hallway intersection $S$, its monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$. ^cor-monotonization-contains

We will later show that the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of a hallway intersection $S$ is always connected, so is itself a hallway intersection. We remark that in [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]], Gerver missed showing the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ which is required for his argument to work rigorously. To prove the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$, we first study the geometric structure of $\mathcal{M}(S)$. We start by naming the parts of the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [rotating-hallway-parts].__ Let $Q^+ = (-\infty, 1]^2$ be the closed quarter-plane bounded by outer walls $a$ and $c$. Let $Q^- = (-\infty, 0)^2$ be the open quarter-plane bounded by inner walls $b$ and $d$, so that $L = Q^+ \setminus Q^-$. For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let $a_S(t), b_S(t), c_S(t), d_S(t), \mathbf{x}_S(t), \mathbf{y}_S(t)$ be the parts of $L_S(t)$ corresponding to the parts $a, b, c, d, \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$ respectively. ^def-rotating-hallway-parts

So we have $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ in particular. We also define the followings.

> __Definition [parallelogram-fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _parallelogram_ $P_\omega = H \cap R_\omega(V)$ with rotation angle $\omega$. If $\omega = \pi / 2$, then $P_\omega$ is the horizontal strip $H$. For any $\omega < \pi / 2$, let $p_{\omega} = l(\omega, 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ be the upper-right corner of $P_\omega$. Likewise, define the _fan_ $F_\omega = H(0, \pi+\omega) \cap H(0, 3\pi/2)$ as the convex cone bounded by the bottom edges of $P_\omega$. ^def-parallelogram-fan

By decomposition $L_S(t)$ into $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, we get the following representation of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ as the subtraction of two sets.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{M}(S) & = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} L_S(t)  \\
& =
\left( P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_S(t) \right)
\end{align*}
$$
The set $K = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q^+_S(t)$ is the convex set inside the parallelogram $P_\omega$ with the outer walls $a_S(t)$ and $c_S(t)$ as tangent lines. Imagine $K$ as a block of clay and rotate it around the hallway $L$ while touching the outer walls $a$ and $c$. Then the inner corner of $L$ carves out the set $N = F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_S(t)$, and after the full rotation we obtain the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S) = K \setminus N$. We now give names to sets $K$ and $N$: first, $K$ is called the _cap_ of $S$ ([[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-cap-hallway-intersection]]).

> __Definition [cap].__ A _cap_ $K$ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and a closed _angle set_ $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq \left[ 0, \omega \right]$ is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> - $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\pi + \omega) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$. Geometrically, $K$ is contained in the parallelogram $P_\omega$ and touches all sides of $P_\omega$.
> - $K$ has angular support in the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$.

> __Proposition [cap-hallway-intersection].__ Let $S$ be any hallway intersection with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Assume without loss of generality that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Define $\mathcal{C}(S)$ as the following set.
$$
\mathcal{C}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q^+_S(t)
$$
> Then $\mathcal{C}(S)$ adheres to [[01. Monotone Sofa#^def-cap]]. With this, call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the _cap_ of $S$. ^pro-cap-hallway-intersection

We omit the proof of [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-cap-hallway-intersection]] but note that it solely depends on the condition $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. The tangent hallways of $S$ are completely determined by its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ as the following.

> __Proposition [cap-same-support-function].__ Let $S$ be any hallway intersection with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$ such that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ be its cap. Then the support functions $p_S$ and $p_K$ have the same value on the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$. Consequently, the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ and $L_K(t)$ of $S$ and $K$ agree on any $t \in \Theta$. That is, $?_S(t) = ?_K(t)$ for any $? = a, b, c, d, \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$. ^pro-cap-same-support-function

With [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-cap-same-support-function]], we can define the set $N$ carved out by the inner corner of $L$ purely in terms of the cap $K$. Call $N$ the _niche_ of cap $K$.

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Define the _wedge_ $T_K(t) = F_\omega \cap Q_K^-(t)$ of $K$ for any angle $t \in \Theta$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as the union of all wedges as the following. ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_K(t) = \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} T_K(t) 
$$

Note that in [[01. Monotone Sofa#^def-niche]], if $K$ is the cap of $S$ then we have $Q_K^-(t) = Q_S^-(t)$ by [[01. Monotone Sofa#^pro-cap-same-support-function]] so $N = \mathcal{N}(K)$. We now have the following conclusion from the discussion so far.

> __Corollary [monotonization-eq].__ Let $S$ is any hallway intersection with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$. Assume $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Then the monotonization of the hallway intersection $S$ is $\mathcal{M}(S) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of $K$. ^cor-monotonization-eq

We are now ready to show the connectedness of the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of a hallway intersection $S$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-hallway-intersection].__ Let $S$ be a hallway intersection with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ satisfying $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Then the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected, and so a hallway intersection with the angle set $\Theta$. ^thm-monotonization-is-hallway-intersection

_Proof._ Say that a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ is _closed in the direction of_ vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if, for any $x \in X$ and $\lambda \geq 0$, we have $x + \lambda v \in X$.

Fix an arbitrary point $p$ in $\mathcal{M}(S)$. Take the line $l_\theta$ passing $p$ that makes an angle of arbitrary $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ with the $x$-axis. Observe that $l_\theta \cap \mathcal{M}(S)$ is a nonempty line segment because $\bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_S(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$. So if any of the lines $l_\theta$ meets $S$, then $p$ is connected to $S$ inside $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and the proof is done. Our goal now is to prove that there is some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ such that $l_\theta$ meets $S$. Assume by contradiction that for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$.

As $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ and the support function of $S$ and $\mathcal{C}(S)$ agrees on the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$, the support function of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ also agrees with that of $S$ on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$. As $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(0) = l_S(0)$ or strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$. The line $l_{\pi/2}$ can't be equal to $l_S(0)$ because otherwise, $l_{\pi/2}$ contains some point of $S$ contradicting our assumption. So the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$.

Likewise, as $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\omega}$ that passes through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega + \pi/2) = l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ or strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$. The line $l_\omega$ cannot be equal to $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ as we assumed that $l_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$. So the line $l_{\omega}$ is strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_{\omega}$.

As the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, $S$ is inside the set $X = \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \bigcup_{\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]} l_\theta$. Note that the set $X$ has exactly two connected components $X_L$ and $X_R$ on left and right respectively. As there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$, $S \cap X_R$ is nonempty. As there is also a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_\omega$, $S \cap X_L$ is nonempty. We get contradiction as $S$ is connected and a subset of $X$. □

An important corollary of [[01. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization-is-hallway-intersection]] is the following.

> __Corollary [monotone-sofa].__ Let $S$ be an arbitrary moving sofa of rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi / 2]$. Assume without loss of generality that $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$. Then the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$ and is also a moving sofa or rotation angle $\omega$. ^cor-monotone-sofa

> __Definition [monotone-sofa].__ With [[01. Monotone Sofa#^cor-monotone-sofa]], call any monotonization of a moving sofa a _monotone moving sofa_. Likewise, call any monotonization of a hallway intersection a _monotone hallway intersection_. ^def-monotone-sofa

By [[01. Monotone Sofa#^cor-monotonization-eq]], any monotone moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ (resp. monotone hallway intersection $S$ with angle set $\Theta$) is its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$ (resp. $\Theta$) subtracted by its niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. With this, we will assume that a moving sofa $S$ is monotone without loss of generality, and understand $S$ mainly in terms of its cap $K$.

We will show that for a monotone hallway intersection $S$ and its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$, the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is contained in $K$. More generally, for a cap $K$ (that may not be the cap of a hallway intersection) we will show that $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is a subset of $K$ if and only if the set $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected ([[01. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]]). To do so, we prepare a set of definitions and lemmas regarding the cap $K$.

We define the vertices of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-vertices].__ Let $K$ be a cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. For any $t \in \Theta$, define the vertices $A^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t)$, $A^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t)$,  $C^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t + \pi/2)$, and $C^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t + \pi/2)$ of $K$. ^def-cap-vertices

The choice of letters $A$ and $C$ follow the choices made in [[@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]]. Also note that the outer wall $a_K(t)$ (resp. $c_K(t)$) touches the cap $K$ at the vertices $A_K^+(t)$ and $A_K^-(t)$ (resp. $C_K^+(t)$ and $C_K^-(t)$) respectively. We also define the _upper boundary_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [upper-boundary-of-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the _upper boundary_ $\delta K$ of $K$ as the set $\delta K = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]} e_K(t)$. ^def-upper-boundary-of-cap

Note that for a cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$, the upper boundary $\delta K$ is exactly the points touched by the outer walls of tangent hallways $L_K(t)$ touch $K$ for every $t \in \Theta$. Also note that unless $K$ is the vertical line segment $\left\{ 0 \right\}\times [0, 1]$, $K$ has nonempty interior and so $\delta K$ is a Jordan arc connecting the endpoints $v_K^-(0)$ and $v_K^+(\omega + \pi / 2)$.

For any cap $K$ and angle $t$, define the following values of the wedge $T_K(t) = K \cap Q_K^-(t)$ bounded by the inner walls $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$. 

> __Definition [cap-wedge-gap].__ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$.
> 
> Define the point $W_K(t)$ as the intersection of the line $l(\pi/2, 0)$ and $b_K(t)$. Define $w_K(t) = (v^-_K(0) - W_K(t))\cdot u_0$ as the distance between $W_K(t)$ and the right endpoint $v_K^-(0)$ of $\delta K$ along the $u_0$.
> 
> Likewise, define the point $Z_K(t)$ as the intersection of the line $l(\omega, 0)$ and $d_K(t)$. Define $z_K(t) = (v_K^+(\omega + \pi/2) - Z_K(t)) \cdot v_t$ as the distance between $Z_K(t)$ and the left endpoint $v_K^+(\omega + \pi/2)$ along the direction $v_\omega$. ^def-cap-wedge-gap

We show that $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. The values $w_K(t)$ and $z_K(t)$ will be important in later chapters.

> __Lemma [wedge-ends-in-cap].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. For any angle $t \in (0, \omega)$, we have $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. ^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap

_Proof._ Say that a point $p_1$ is further than the point $p_2$ in the direction of vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if $p_1 \cdot v \geq p_2 \cdot v$.

To show that $w_K(t) \geq 0$, we need to show that the point $v_K^-(0)$ is further than the point $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. The point $q = a_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ is further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$, because the lines $a_K(t)$ and $b_K(t)$ form the boundary of a unit-width vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $t$. The point $A^-_K(t)$ is further than $q = a_K(t) \cap a_K(\pi/2)$ in the direction of $u_0$ because $K$ is a convex body. Finally, the point $A^-_K(0)$ is further than $A_K^-(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ again because $K$ is a convex body. Summing up, the points $W_K(t), q, A_K^-(t), A_K^-(0)$ are aligned in the direction of $u_0$, completing the proof. A symmetric argument in the direction of $v_\omega$ proves $z_K(t) \geq 0$. □

We factor out a part of the proof of [[01. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]].

> __Lemma [niche-in-cap].__ Fix any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$. If the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in $K$, then the wedge $T_K(t)$ is a subset of $K$. ^lem-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ We divide the proof into four cases, on whether the origin $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below the lines $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$ or not respectively.

- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then the corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is outside the interior $F_\omega^\circ$ of fan $F_\omega$, and so $T_K(t)$ is an empty set.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above $b_K(t)$ but lies strictly below $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a triangle with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the intersection $p = l(\omega, 0) \cap b_K(t)$. In this case the point $p$ is in the line segment connecting $Z_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. Also, as $z_K(t) \geq 0$ ([[01. Monotone Sofa#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]]) the point $Z_K(t)$ lies in the segment connecting $C^+_K(\omega)$ and the origin $(0, 0)$. So the points $\mathbf{x}_K(t), Z_K(t), p$ are in $K$ and by convexity of $K$ we have $T \subseteq K$.
- The case where $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below $b_K(t)$ but lies on or above $d_K(t)$ can be handed by an argument symmetric to the previous case.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a quadrilateral with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$, $W_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. As $w_K(t) \geq 0$ (resp. $z_K(t) \geq 0$) the point $W_K(t)$ (resp. $Z_K(t)$) is in the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $A^-_K(0)$ (resp. $C^+_K(\omega)$). So all the vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$, and $T_K(t)$ is in $K$ by convexity.

□

> __Theorem [monotonization-connected-iff].__ Let $K$ be any cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. Then the followings are all equivalent. ^thm-monotonization-connected-iff
> 
> 1. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$
> 2. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K \setminus \delta K$
> 3. For any $t \in \Theta$, either $\mathbf{x}(t) \not\in F_\omega^\circ$ or $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$.
> 4. The set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected.

_Proof._ The conditions 1 and 2 are equivalent because the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is open in the subset topology of $F_\omega$, and the set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$.

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) We will prove the contraposition and assume $\mathbf{x}(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$. Then a neighborhood of $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is inside $F_\omega$ and disjoint from $K$, so a portion of $T_K(t)$ is outside $K$, showing $\mathcal{N}(K) \not\subseteq K \setminus K$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 1) If $\mathbf{x}(t) \not \in F_\omega^\circ$, then $T_K(t)$ is an empty set. If $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$, then by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^lem-niche-in-cap]] and [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] we have $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 4) As $\delta K$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$, we have $\delta K \subseteq \mathcal{M}(K)$. We show that $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is connected. First, $\delta K$ is connected ([[yy. Monotone Sofas#^cor-upper-boundary-arc]]). Next, take any point $p \in \mathcal{M}(K)$. Take the ray $r = R_p(\pi/2)$ in the upward direction $u_{\pi/2}$ starting from $p$. Then $r$ touches a point in $\delta K$ as $p \in K$. Moreover, $r$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$ as the set $\mathcal{N}(K) \cup (\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega)$ is closed in the downwards direction. Now $r \cap K$ is a line segment inside $\mathcal{M}(K)$ that connects the arbitrarily chosen point $p \in \mathcal{M}(K)$ to a point in $\delta K$. So $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is connected.

(4 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Assume by contradiction that $\mathbf{x}(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ for some $t \in \Theta$. We first show that the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is disjoint from $S$. The ray in the upwards direction from $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is disjoint from $K$ as the set $F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ is closed in the direction upwards. The ray in the downwards direction from $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is not in $S$ because $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is the corner of $Q_K^-(t)$ and $Q_K^-(t)$ is closed in the direction downwards. So the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ does not overlap with $S$.

Now separate the horizontal strip $H$ into two chunks by the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$. As $S$ is connected, $S$ should lie either strictly on left or strictly on right of $l$. As $\mathbf{x}(t)$ lies strictly inside $F_\omega$, the point $W_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$, and by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^lem-niche-in-cap]] the point $A_K^-(0)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. So the endpoint $A_K^-(0)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the right side of $l$. Similarly, the points $Z_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$, and by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^lem-niche-in-cap]] the point $C_K^+(\omega)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$. So the endpoint $C^+_K(\omega)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the left side of $l$. As the endpoints $A^-_K(0)$ and $C^+_K(\omega)$ are in $\mathcal{M}(K)$ by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], and the line $l$ separates the two points, $l$ divides $\mathcal{M}(K)$ and so $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is disconnected. □

