In the previous section, we showed that a sofa $S$ of maximum area can be assumed to be a monotone sofa. Moreover, we showed that $S$ is equal to its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ subtracted by the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of $K$. Finally, we showed that $K$ contains $\mathcal{N}(K)$, so the area of $S$ can be expressed as the function $\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ of $K$.

In this section, we change the problem of maximizing the area of $S$ to maximizing the _area functional_ $\mathcal{A}(K)$ on the space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ of caps. We first define the space of all caps with rotation angle $\omega$.

> __Definition [cap-space].__ For any angle set $\Theta$, let $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be the space of all caps $K$ with angle set $\Theta$. For any rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define $\mathcal{K}_\omega = \mathcal{K}_{[0, \omega]}$. ^def-cap-space

Note that the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is a _convex space_: for every caps $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ and any $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, their convex combination $K = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ using the Minkowski sum is also a cap in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. This makes the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ amenable to calculus of variation we will use heavily in later parts. For any cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$, define the _area functional_ on $K$ as the following value.

> __Definition [area-functional].__ For any angle set $\Theta$, define the _area functional_ $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\Theta \to \mathbb{R}$ on $K_\Theta$ as $\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. ^def-area-functional

So if $K$ is the cap of a monotone sofa $S$, then $\mathcal{A}(K)$ is the area of $S$. Note however that not every $K$ in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is a cap of some monotone sofa. For example, if $K$ is too wide in width, then the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ may extrude out of $K$, so that it is impossible for the disconnected set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ to be a moving sofa. However, it will be much easier to consider the optimization of area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ over all $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. With this, we generalize [[01. Introduction/00. Introduction#^con-gerver]] as the following.

> __Conjecture [gerver-cap].__ The cap $K = K_G$ of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum value of the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ over all rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and caps $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^con-gerver-cap

[[02. Space of Caps#^con-gerver-cap]] implies [[01. Introduction/00. Introduction#^con-gerver]], because for any other monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K$, we have $|S| = \mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}(K_G) = |S_G|$ assuming [[02. Space of Caps#^con-gerver-cap]]. However, [[02. Space of Caps#^con-gerver-cap]] is stronger than [[01. Introduction/00. Introduction#^con-gerver]] because it also says that $\mathcal{A}(K_G) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ for the caps $K$ that might not be a cap of a monotone sofa.


Note that the vertices $A^+_K, A^-_K, C^+_K, C^-_K$ of cap and the corners $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$ of the tangent hallway $L_K(t)$ are convex-linear with respect to $K$ by [[00. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]]. Let us define what is a quadratic functional on a convex space.

> __Definition [quadratic-functional].__ A function $f : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ is a _quadratic functional_ on a convex space $\mathcal{K}$ if, for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$ and $K = c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the value $f(K)$ is a quadratic polynomial with respect to $\lambda$. ^def-quadratic-functional

We strongly expect that the original area functional $\mathcal{A}$ is not a quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. But we will construct quadratic functional upper bounds of $\mathcal{A}$ that are much easier to control. We omit the proof of the following observation.

> __Lemma [quadratic-functional].__ If $\mathcal{K}$ is a convex space and $V$, $W$ are vector spaces, and $f : \mathcal{K} \to V$ and $g : \mathcal{K} \to W$ are convex-linear maps and $* : V \times W \to \mathbb{R}$ is a bilinear form, then $f(K) * g(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}$. ^lem-quadratic-functional

Also, we define which quadratic functional is positive/negative semidefinite. 

> __Definition [positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional].__ Let $\mathcal{K}$ be any convex space. A quadratic functional $f : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ is _positive semidefinite_ (resp. _negative semidefinite_) if, for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$ and $K = c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the quadratic polynomial $f(K)$ of $\lambda$ has non-negative (resp. non-positive) quadratic coefficient. ^def-positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional

A proof of the following can be achieved by rudimentary calculation.

> __Lemma [negative-semidefinite].__ The followings are true. ^lem-negative-semidefinite
> 
> - If $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to V$ is a convex-linear map to an inner product space $V$, then the map $v \mapsto - \langle f(v), f(v) \rangle_V$ is a negative semidefinite quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.
> - Adding a negative semidefinite functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ with another convex-linear functional or negative semidefinite functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ always gives a negative semidefinite functional.

A negative semidefinite quadratic functional $f$ on a convex space $\mathcal{K}$ is easy to optimize, as one only need to verify that $K \in \mathcal{K}$ is a local optimum of $f$.

> __Theorem [variation-maximizer].__ Let $f$ be a negative-definite quadratic functional on a convex space $\mathcal{K}$. Then $K_1 \in \mathcal{K}$ is a maximizer of $f$ if and only if for any $K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$, if we let $K = c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)$ for any $\lambda \in [0, 1]$ then we have $\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} f(K) \leq 0$. ^thm-variation-maximizer

_Proof._ If $K_1$ is indeed a maimizer of $f$, then the value $f(K)$ should attain its maximum at $\lambda = 0$ so the result $\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} f(K) \leq 0$ follows. Now we show that whenever $\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} f(K) \leq 0$ for any $K_2$, then $K_1$ is a maximizer. Write $f(\lambda)$ as the quadratic polynomial $p(\lambda) = f(K)$ of $\lambda$. Then the quadratic coefficient of $p$ is non-positive ([[02. Space of Caps#^def-positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional]]), and since $\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} p(\lambda) \leq 0$ the linear coefficient of $p$ is also non-positive. Now $p(\lambda)$ is monotonically decreasing on $\lambda \geq 0$, and so $f(K_2) = p(1) \leq p(0) = f(K_1)$. As $K_2$ is taken arbitrarily, this proves that $K_1$ is a maximizer. □

# Geometry of Caps

We collect miscellenious results on the geometry of caps.

## Boundary Measure

We establish a correspondence between caps and its boundary measures. Let $K$ be an arbitrary cap in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-cap].__ The boundary measure $\beta_K$ of $K$ on $S^1$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ and satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-measure-cap
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$

_Proof._ $\beta_K$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^def-cap]]. We have $\left( A^+_K(\omega) - A^-_K(0) \right) \cdot v_0 = 1$ for any cap $K$, and by applying [[00. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]] to the formula, we obtain the first equation. The second equation can be obtained by a symmetric argument. □

> __Theorem [cap-from-boundary-measure].__ Conversely to [[#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]], let $\beta$ be a measure on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$ that satisfies the following equations. ^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta(dt) = 1
$$
> Then the followings hold.
> 
> - If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$. This is unique up to horizontal translation: all the other caps $K'$ satisfying the same condition is a horizontal translation of $K$.
> - If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$.

_Proof._ We first observe that there is a unique extension of $\beta$ on the set $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ such that $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$. Let $A = \int_{t \in \Theta}\sin(t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta} v_t \,\beta(dt) = - A u_0 + v_0$ by the first condition. Likewise, if we let $B = \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi / 2} \sin(\omega + \pi/2 - t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2}v_t\,\beta(dt) = B v_\omega - u_\omega$. By solving for $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$, we get the unique extension of $\beta$ on the points $\pi + \omega$ and $3\pi/2$ as the followings.

- If $\omega = \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = \beta(\left\{ 3\pi / 2 \right\}) = \int_{t \in \Theta \cup \Theta + \pi/2} \sin(t) \, \beta(dt) \geq 0$
- If $\omega < \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = B + v_\omega \cdot p_\omega > 0$ and $\beta(\left\{ 3 \pi/2 \right\}) = A + u_0 \cdot p_\omega \geq 0$.

Now we use [[00. Geometric Results#^thm-supported-gauss-measure]]. If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ up to translation so that $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$. The equations on $\beta$ imply that the width measured in the direction of $y$-axis is 1. So up to translation, the $K$ that is a cap ($p_K(\pi) = 1$ and $p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$) is unique up to horizontal translation. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ such that $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$ and $v_K^+(\omega) = p_\omega$. The equations on $\beta$ is equivalent to that $K$ has width 1 in the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$. So this $K$ is a cap. □

## Arm Lengths and Inner Corners of Tangent Hallways

We define the _arm lengths_ of tangent hallways of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ For any $t \in \Theta$, let $g_K^+(t)$ be the real value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^+_K(t) + g_K^+(t) v_t$. Let $g_K^-(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = A^-_K(t) + g_K^-(t) v_t$. Let $h_K^+(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^+_K(t) + h_K^+(t) u_t$. Let $h_K^-(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^-_K(t) + h_K^-(t) u_t$. ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length

It turns out that when $\Theta = [0, \omega]$, the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ on $\Theta$ is both left and right differentiable. Also, the differentiation can be expressed in terms of the arm lengths of $K$.

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the right derivative of the outer and inner corner $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ exists for any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^+ \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^+(t) u_t + h_K^+(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^+(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, $\mathbf{v}_K^- (t)$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \omega$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^- \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^-(t) u_t + h_K^-(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^-(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^-(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> In particular, both $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$ are Lipschitz.

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$. Take any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We simplify $\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{y}(s) - \mathbf{y}(t)) / \delta$. Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$ and $A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_s$. Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t).
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with first equation then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. Observe that $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$. We get
$$ (\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot u_t  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = - g^+(t)$$
as $g^+(t) = (\mathbf{y}(t) - A^+(t)) \cdot v_t$. A similar argument can be applied to show $(\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = h^+(t)$ and thus the first equation of the theorem. The right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ comes from $\mathbf{x}_K(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - u_t - v_t$. A symmetric argument calculates the left derivative of the outer and inner corner.

Observe that $g_K^{\pm}$ and $h_K^{\pm}$ are bounded by the diameter of $K$. So both $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$ has left and right differentiation bounded by an absolute constant, so they are Lipschitz. □

%%
Summarizing the previous discussions, we have shown that any maximum sofa $S$ rotating by an angle of $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ can be assumed to be monotone with cap $K$ and angle set $[0, \omega]$ ([[yy. Monotone Sofas#^cor-monotonization-contains]] and [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-is-hallway-intersection]]). That is, $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ ([[yy. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-eq]]) where $K$ is the cap of $S$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the corresponding niche. With this, we will understand a maximum sofa $S$ by its cap $K$. In this subsection, we define the space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ of all caps $K$ and analyze it.
%%