In this section, we prove a variant of Gerver's Theorem 2, which states that we have a sequence of _balanced polygons_ converging to a certain sofa of maximum area. Care have to be made because the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ is not actually measuring the area of the intersection.

> __Theorem [balanced].__ Let $\Theta$ be a finite angle set with rotation angle $\omega$. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be the cap with angle set $\Theta$ that maximizes the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$. Then for every angle $t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}$, the length of the edge of $K$ on the line $a_K(t)$ (resp. $c_K(t)$) is equal to the sum of the edges of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ on the line $b_K(t)$. ^thm-balanced

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary $K$ and $t$. Let $0 = \theta_0 < \theta_1 < \dots < \theta_n < \theta_{n+1} = \omega$ be the angles in $\Theta$. Choose an arbitrary angle $t = \theta_i$, and let $s_a$ be the length of the edge of $K$ in the line $a_K(t)$, and $s_b$ be the sum of the edges of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ in the line $b_K(t)$. Assume by contradiction that $s_a \neq s_b$. We will slightly modify the cap $K$ to another cap $K' \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ so that the area functional increases.

We define $K'$ as the intersection 
$$
K' = F_\omega \cap \bigcap_{j=1}^{n} R_{\theta_j}(Q^+) + x_i
$$using the coordinates $x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n \in \mathbb{R}^2$ to be determined. Note that if each $x_j$ is equal to $\mathbf{x}_K(\theta_j)$ for all $1 \leq j \leq n$, then we have $K'$  equal to $K$. We will set $x_j = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_j)$ for all $j \neq i$, and slightly change the value of $x_i$ only. 

Assume that $s_a > s_b$. In this case, choose a sufficiently small value $\epsilon > 0$ 

Define $f(x_1, x_2, \dots, x_n)$ as the area of $F_\omega \cap \left( \bigcup_{i=1}^{n} R_{\theta_i}\left( Q^- \right) + x_i \right)$. Then in particular, $|\mathcal{N}(K)| = f\left( \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_1), \dots, \mathbf{x}_{K}(\theta_n) \right)$. Observe that 
$$
\left. \frac{\partial f}{\partial x_i} \right|_{x_i = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_i)} = s_b
$$
as increasing $dx_i$ will increase the value of $f$ by $s_b dx_i$, because each $L_K(\theta_i)$ have different angles than the other edges of $L_K(\theta_j)$. We would like to control $K$ by controlling $x_i = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_i)$. The issue with this is that if we do so, the lines $a_i$ may not form a proper convex set, or, the cap formed by the lines will not lead back to $x_i = \mathbf{x}_{K}(\theta_i)$.

If $s_a > s_b$, pushing $\mathbf{x}_K$ in the direction of $u_{\theta_i}$ does not change the position of rest of $\mathbf{x}_K(\theta_j)$ for $j \neq i$. 
If $s_a < s_b$, pushing $\mathbf{x}_K$ in the direction of $- u_{\theta_i}$ it could happen that $x_i \neq \mathbf{x}_{K'}(\theta_i)$, but then still we have the $Q^-$ part reduced.

(they don't prove this really in Gerver's paper!!!)
□

> __Definition [hallway-restriction].__ Let $\Theta'$ and $\Theta$ be angle sets with rotation angle $\omega$ such that $\Theta' \subseteq \Theta$. For any cap $K$ of angle set $\Theta$, define $K|_{\Theta'} = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in\Theta'} Q_K^+(t)$ as the cap of angle set $\Theta'$. ^def-hallway-restriction

Then we have $\mathcal{M}(K) \subseteq \mathcal{M}(K|_{\Theta'})$ in particular.

> __Theorem [maximum-balanced-sofa].__ Let $\Theta_1 \subseteq \Theta_2 \subseteq \Theta_3 \subseteq \dots$  be any sequence of finite angle sets of rotation angle $\omega$ such that $\bigcup_{i} \Theta_i$ is dense in $[0, \omega]$. Let $S_i$ be a monotone hallway intersection with angle set $\Theta_i$ attaining the maximum area. Then there is a subsequence $\Theta_{n_j}$ so that $S$ is the limiting shape of $S_{n_j}$ with $p_{S_{n_j}} \to p_{S}$ uniformly on the interval $[0, \omega]$. ^thm-maximum-balanced-sofa

_Proof._ $\bigcup_{i} \Theta_i$ is countably infinite. A diagonal argument proves that there is a strictly increasing sequence $n_1, n_2, \dots$ of natural numbers so that $p_{S_{n_j}} \to p_S$ as $j \to \infty$. Also note that for sufficiently large $i$, the support function of $S_i$ is $C$-Lipschitz. Invoking Blaschke selection theorem, we also can assume that $K_{n_j} \to K$ for a convex set $K$. So it happens that $p_S$ is the support function of $K$.  □

Gerver fails to show that each $S_{n_j}$ is balanced: that maximum hallway intersection has to be connected. We show this using the help of `SofaDesigner` later. 

> __Theorem [sofa-bounded].__ A hallway intersection containing the angle $\pi/4$ has diameter $\leq 2 + 2 \sqrt{2} = 4.828\dots$.  Consequently, $p_S$ is $(2 + 2 \sqrt{2})$-Lipschitz.  ^thm-sofa-bounded

_Proof._ [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-vertex-formula]] □




We bound $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ with finite values. 

Our goal here is to show that, if there is a sufficiently many angle (about 7) in the hallway intersection, then the monotone hallway intersection should be a balanced polygon. We do this because it can be possible that a perturbation of monotone hallway intersection may not be connected. The main theorem here guarantee that a perturbation is still connected, so is a monotone hallway intersection.

> __Lemma [edge-in-triangle].__ Let $K$ be any cap with angle set $\Theta$. Let $t_1 < t_2 < t_3 < t_4$ be four triangles in $\Theta$. Then for any $t \in [t_2, t_3]$, the edge $e_K(t)$ is inside the triangle with vertices $v_K(t_1, t_2)$, $v_K(t_2, t_3)$ and $v_K(t_3, t_4)$. ^lem-edge-in-triangle

In this section, fix the following parameters of angles.


□

%%
I tried showing that the $y$-coordinate of $\mathbf{x}(45^\circ)$ is strictly less than 1, so that $\mathbf{x}(45^{\circ})$ is strictly inside $K$. But even with five or six angles, the upper bound I get is greater than 1 -- it doesn't work.

A way to circumvent this is to not show that corners are strictly inside $K$, and you take maximum area for $K$ (where corners may go outside $K$) not hallway intersection (where corners are inside $K$). Still one can seem to show balancedness when corners could be out.
%%