# Overview

Following the ideas of Gerver, we show rigorously that any moving sofa $S$ is a connected subset of the intersection of two strips of width 1 and rotations of hallway ([[07. Moving Hallway Problem#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]]). We will also show that the rotated hallways containing $S$ can be assumed to be the _tangent hallways_ of $S$ ([[07. Moving Hallway Problem#^pro-tangent-hallway]]) making contact with $S$ in the outer walls.

# Tangent Hallway

We start by defining the tangent hallways for any shape $S$ (that is, a nonempty compact subset $S$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ by [[05. Notations and Conventions#^def-shape]]).

> __Definition [rotation-map].__ Define $R_\theta : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the rotation map of $\mathbb{R}^2$ along the origin by a counterclockwise angle of $\theta \in S^1$. ^def-rotation-map

> __Definition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, define the _tangent hallway_ $L_S(t)$ of $S$ with angle $t$ as the following.
$$
L_S(t) = R_t(L) + p_S(t)  u_t + p_S(t + \pi/2) v_t
$$

[[07. Moving Hallway Problem#^pro-tangent-hallway]] is the defining property of the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$.

> __Proposition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ is the unique rigid transformation of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$ such that the outer walls of $L_S(t)$, each corresponding to the outer walls $a$ and $c$ of $L$, are the tangent lines $l_S(t)$ and $l_S(t + \pi/2)$ of $S$ respectively. ^pro-tangent-hallway

Assume that a shape $S$ is contained in a translation $L'$ of $R_t(L)$ for some angle $t$. Then while keeping $S$ inside $L'$, we can push $L'$ towards $S$ in the directions $-u_t$ and $-v_t$ until the outer walls of the final $L' = L_S(t)$ make contact with $S$. The pushed hallway $L_S(t)$ still contains $S$ because the directions $-u_t$ and $-v_t$ of movement only push the inner walls of $L'$ away from $S$. Consequently, we have the following.

> __Proposition [tangent-hallway-contains].__ For any shape $S$ contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$ with an angle $t \in S^1$, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ with angle $t$ contains $S$. ^pro-tangent-hallway-contains

Name the parts of tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ according to the parts of $L$.

> __Definition [rotating-hallway-parts].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let $\mathbf{x}_S(t), \mathbf{y}_S(t), a_S(t), b_S(t), c_S(t), d_S(t), Q^+_S(t), Q^-_S(t)$ be the parts of $L_S(t)$ corresponding to the parts $\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, a, b, c, d, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$ respectively. ^def-rotating-hallway-parts

So we have $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ and $Q^+_S(t) = H_S(t) \cap H_S(t + \pi/2)$ in particular. Also we have the following representations of the parts purely in terms of the supporting function $p_K$.
$$
\begin{gather}
\mathbf{x}_S(t) = (p_K(t) - 1) u_t + (p_K(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t \\
\mathbf{y}_S(t) = p_K(t) u_t + p_K(t + \pi/2) v_t \\
a_S(t) = l_S(t) = l(t, p_K(t)) \\
b_S(t) \subseteq l(t, p_K(t) - 1) \\
c_S(t) = l_S(t + \pi/2) = l(t + \pi/2, p_K(t + \pi/2)) \\
d_S(t) \subseteq l(t + \pi/2, p_K(t + \pi/2) - 1)
\end{gather}
$$

# Moving Hallway Problem

Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. By looking at the movement of $S$ inside the hallway $L$ in the perspective of $S$, Gerver observed that the fixed $S$ should be contained inside the hallways rotating around $S$ (line xx-yy of [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]]). Furthermore, he actually showed that for a connected shape $S$, being a common subset of rotating hallways is also _sufficient_ for $S$ to be a moving sofa (line xx-yy of [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]]). We state this observation of Gerver as the following [[07. Moving Hallway Problem#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]].

> __Definition [strip].__ Define the unit-width horizontal and vertical strips $H = \mathbb{R} \times [-1, 0]$ and $V = [-1, 0] \times \mathbb{R}$ respectively. ^def-strip

> __Theorem [moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection].__ Let $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ be an arbitrary angle. For a connected shape $S$, the followings are equivalent. ^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection
> 
> 1. $S$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$.
> 2. $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$. Also, for every $t \in [0, \omega]$, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$, the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$.
> 3. $S$ can be translated so that $S$ is in standard position, $S \subseteq H \cap R_{\omega}(V)$ and $S \subseteq L_S(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$.

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 2) Consider the movement of $S$ inside the hallway $L$. For any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$, there is a moment where the sofa $S$ is rotated clockwise by an angle of $t$ and contained in $L$. Looking at this from the perspective of the sofa $S$, $S$ is contained in some translation of $L$ rotated _counterclockwise_ by an arbitrary $t \in [0, \omega]$. Likewise, by looking at the initial (resp. final) position of $S$ inside $L_H$ (resp. $L_V$) from the perspective of $S$, the set $S$ is contained in both a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$.

($\Leftarrow$) The position of the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ depends only on the values $p_S(t)$ and $p_S(t + \pi / 2)$ of the support function $p_S$ of $S$. As $p_S$ is continuous, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ moves continuously with respect to $t \in [0, \omega]$. Let $f_t$ be the rigid transformation that sends $L_S(t)$ to $L$. Then the transformation $f_t(S)$ of $S$ moves continuously with respect to $t$, and is inside $L$ by [[07. Moving Hallway Problem#^pro-tangent-hallway-contains]]. Because $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$, the width of $S$ measured in the direction of $v_0$ is at most 1. So $S$ is contained in the horizontal side of $L_S(0)$, and by mapping it under $f_0$ we have $f_0(S) \subseteq L_H$. Likewise, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_\omega(V)$, so the width of $S$ measured in the direction of $v_\omega$ is at most 1. Thus $S$ is contained in the vertical side of $L_S(\omega)$, and by mapping it under $f_\omega$ we have $f_\omega(S) \subseteq L_V$. □