We now define the notion of monotone sofas and establish [[#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]] that a moving sofa is contained in a larger monotone sofa. Define the _monotonization_ of any moving sofa $S$ in standard position as the following set.

> __Definition [monotonization].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The _monotonization_ of $S$ is the intersection ^def-monotonization
$$
\mathcal{M}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t).
$$

Compare the equation in [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotonization]] to [[01. Introduction/02. Moving Hallway Problem#^eqn-monotone]] in [[01. Introduction/02. Moving Hallway Problem]]. The paralleogram $P_\omega$ is the intersection of $H$ and $V_\omega$ ([[10. Notations and Conventions/02. Moving Sofa#^def-parallelogram]]), and the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ are the rotating hallways $L_t$ making contact with $S$ in the outer walls as described in [[01. Introduction/02. Moving Hallway Problem]]. Condition 3 of [[15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]] implies that the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$.

> __Corollary [monotonization-is-larger].__ $\mathcal{M}(S) \supseteq S$ for any moving sofa $S$ in standard position. ^cor-monotonization-is-larger

We will establish the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-connected].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Then the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected. ^thm-monotonization-is-connected

Once the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is established, we can immediately show that the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is a moving sofa containing the initial moving sofa $S$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ is a moving sofa containing $S$ with the same rotation angle $\omega$ in standard position. ^thm-monotonization-is-sofa

_Proof._ By [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]], the shape $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected. By [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotonization]], the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is contained $P_\omega$ and $L_S(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$, so it satisfies the second condition of [[15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]]. So the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$. $\mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $S$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]]. From $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq P_\omega$ and
$$
p_S(\omega) = p_{P_\omega}(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = p_{P_\omega}(\pi/2) = 1
$$
we have $p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega) = p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\pi/2) = 1$. So $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is in standard position. □

Now any monotonization of a moving sofa is also a moving sofa. Call the resulting monotonization a _monotone sofa_.

> __Definition [monotone-sofa].__ A _monotone sofa_ is the monotonization of some moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. ^def-monotone-sofa

The moving sofa problem asks for the largest-area moving sofas. So [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]] tells us that we only need to consider monotone sofas for the problem. The rest of this [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization]] proves [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]] as promised.

# Proof of [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]]

We prepare the following terminologies.

> __Definition [cap-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Define the set ^def-cap-sofa
$$
\mathcal{C}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t).
$$

The set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ will later be called as the _cap_ of $S$ ([[15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]]) after defining the notion of cap in [[15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^def-cap]]. We don't need this notion of cap as of now.

> __Definition [closed-in-direction].__ Say that a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ is _closed in the direction of_ vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if, for any $x \in X$ and $\lambda \geq 0$, we have $x + \lambda v \in X$. ^def-closed-in-direction

> __Definition [line-half-plane-directions].__ Any line $l$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ divides the plane into two half-planes. If $l$ is not parallel to the $y$-axis, call the _left side_ (resp. _right side_) of $l$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l$ containing the point $- Nu_0$ (resp. $Nu_0$) for a sufficiently large $N$. If a point $p$ is on the left (resp. right) side of $l$ and not on the boundary $l$, we say that $p$ is _strictly on the left_ (resp. _right_) _side_ of $l$. ^def-line-half-plane-directions

We also prepare a lemma.

> __Lemma [cap-same-support-function].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Then the support functions $p_S$, $p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}$, and $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}$ of $S$, $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and $\mathcal{C}(S)$ agree on the set $J_\omega$. ^lem-cap-same-support-function

_Proof._ We have $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]] and $L_S(t) \subset Q_S^+(t)$. So it remains to show $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t) \leq p_S(t)$ for every $t$ in $J_\omega$. By the definition of $\mathcal{C}(S)$ we have $S \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq H_S(t)$. So we have $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t) \leq p_S(t)$ indeed. □

A moving sofa $S$ and its cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ shares the same tangent hallways $L_S(t) = L_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(t)$.

> __Proposition [cap-same-tangent-hallway].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ of $S$ and the tangent hallway $L_K(t)$ of set $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ are equal for every $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^pro-cap-same-tangent-hallway

_Proof._ The tangent hallways $L_X(t)$ of $X = S, K$ depend solely on the values of the support function $p_X$ of $X$ on $J_\omega$, by the equation of $L_X(t)$ in [[15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway]]. The support functions of $S$ and $K$ match on the set $J_\omega$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], so the result follows. □

We are now ready to show that $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected.

_Proof._ (of [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]]) Define the set $X := \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t)$. By plugging the equation $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ to [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotonization]], we have $\mathcal{M}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S) \setminus X$. Observe that $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is a convex body containing $S$ (say, by [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]] and $\mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$).

Fix an arbitrary point $p$ in $\mathcal{M}(S)$. Take an arbitrary angle $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$. Observe that the set $X = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^-_S(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$ ([[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-closed-in-direction]]) for all angle $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, since each $Q_S^-(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$. Take the line $l_\theta$ passing the point $p$ in the direction of $u_\theta$. The set $s_\theta = l_\theta \cap \mathcal{M}(S)$ contains $p$, and $s_\theta$ is a nonempty line segment because $s_\theta$ is the line segment $l_\theta \cap \mathcal{C}(S)$ minus the half-line $l_\theta \setminus X$. If the line $l_\theta$ meets $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, then $p$ is connected to $S$ along the line segment $s_\theta$ inside $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and the proof is done. Our goal now is to prove that there is some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ such that $l_\theta$ meets $S$.

Assume by contradiction that for every $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$. By [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], we have $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(t) = l_S(t)$ for every $t \in J_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. Because $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\pi/2}$ passing through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(0) = l_S(0)$ or strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$. If $l_{\pi/2} = l_S(0)$ then $l_{\pi/2}$ contains some point of $S$ contradicting our assumption. So the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$. Likewise, as $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\omega}$ that passes through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega + \pi/2) = l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ or strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$. The line $l_\omega$ cannot be equal to $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ because we assumed that $l_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$. So the line $l_{\omega}$ is strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_{\omega}$.

Because the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, the set $S$ is inside the set $Y = \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \bigcup_{\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]} l_\theta$. Note that $Y$ has exactly two connected components $Y_L$ and $Y_R$ on the left and the right side of the lines $l_\theta$ respectively. As there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$, the set $S \cap Y_R$ is nonempty. As there is also a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_\omega$, the set $S \cap Y_L$ is also nonempty. We get contradiction as $S$ should be a connected subset of $Y$. □

> __Definition [fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _fan_ $F_\omega = H(\pi+\omega, 0) \cap H(3\pi/2, 0)$ with angle $\omega$ as the convex cone pointed at the origin, bounded from below by the bottom edges $l(\omega, 0)$ and $l(3\pi/2, 0)$ of the parallelogram $P_\omega$. ^def-fan

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) := F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_K(t).
$$

Now we establish the structure of any monotonization of a sofa.

> __Theorem [monotonization-structure].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ is equal to $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of sofa $S$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of the cap $K$. ^thm-monotonization-structure

_Proof._ Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ be the cap of $S$. By breaking down each $L_S(t)$ into $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ can be represented as the following subtraction of two sets. ^eqn-monotonization
$$
\begin{split}
\mathcal{M}(S) & = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t) \\
& = \left( P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t) \right)
\end{split}
$$
By [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^pro-cap-same-tangent-hallway]] we have $Q_S^-(t) = Q_K^-(t)$. So we have $\mathcal{M}(S) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ by the definitions of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$. □
