Define the _monotonization_ of a moving sofa $S$ in standard position as the following set.

> __Definition [monotonization].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The _monotonization_ of $S$ is the intersection ^def-monotonization
$$
\mathcal{M}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t).
$$

> __Definition [monotone-sofa].__ A _monotone sofa_ is a moving sofa which is the monotonization of some moving sofa in standard position. ^def-monotone-sofa

Condition 3 of [[07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]] implies the following.

> __Corollary [monotonization-is-larger].__ $\mathcal{M}(S) \supseteq S$ for every moving sofa $S$ in standard position. ^cor-monotonization-is-larger

Gerver claimed in [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]] that the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is also a moving sofa, so that a sofa of maximum area can be assumed to be monotone. However, he did not show that the set $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected, which is essential for $\mathcal{M}(S)$ to be a moving sofa. We will fill the gap in his argument by showing that $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is indeed connected.

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-connected].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Then the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is connected. ^thm-monotonization-is-connected

Once [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]] is established, the following is a corollary of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]], [[07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]], and [[10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]]. In particular, we can always assume that a sofa of maximum area is a monotone sofa ([[01. Moving Sofa Problem#^thm-monotone-sofa]]).

> __Corollary [monotonization-is-sofa].__ Any monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of a moving sofa $S$ in standard position is a monotone sofa containing $S$. ^cor-monotonization-is-sofa

Every monotonization have the following structure consisting of a _cap_ and a _niche_.

> __Theorem [monotonization-structure].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ is equal to $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of sofa $S$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of the cap $K$. ^thm-monotonization-structure

This structure will be used thoroughout the rest of the paper including the proof of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]]. We delegate the full details of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]] including the full definition of a cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ of $S$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]]) and the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of $K$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-niche]]) later. Instead, we motivate thie structure by giving a formula of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ as below.

Fix an arbitrary moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in a standard position. By breaking down each $L_S(t)$ into $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ can be represented as the following subtraction of two sets. For the definition of $P_\omega$ and $F_\omega$, see [[05. Notations and conventions#^def-parallelogram]] and [[05. Notations and conventions#^def-fan]] respectively. ^eqn-monotonization
$$
\begin{split}
\mathcal{M}(S) & = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t) \\
& = \left( P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t) \right) \\
& =: K \setminus N
\end{split}
$$
After proving [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]] in full details, the first set $K := P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t)$ will be the _cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ of $S$_, which is the intersection of closed half-planes and thus a convex set. It turns out that the second set $N := F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t)$ that we subtract from the cap $K$ is completely determined by $K$. Accordingly, $N = \mathcal{N}(K)$ will be the _niche of cap_ $K$.

> __Remark [cap-niche-intuition].__ The equation [[10. Monotonization#^eqn-monotonization]] can understood intuitively as the following (see [[01. Moving Sofa Problem#^fig-monotone-sofa]]). The set $K$ is a convex body bounded from below by the boundary of fan $F_\omega$, and bounded from above by the outer walls $a_S(t)$ and $c_S(t)$ of $L_S(t)$. Imagine the set $K$ as a block of clay that rotates inside the hallway $L$ in the clockwise angle of $t \in [0, \omega]$ while always touching the outer walls $a$ and $c$ of $L$. As $K$ rotates inside $L$, the inner corner of $L$ carves out the set $N$ which is the regions bounded by inner walls $b_S(t)$ and $d_S(t)$ of $L_S(t)$ from $K$. After the full movement of $K$, the final clay $K \setminus N$ is a moving sofa $\mathcal{M}(S)$. ^rem-cap-niche-intuition

For the rest of the paper, we will always use the following variant [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]] to represent any monotone sofa $S$. Note that this variant does not mention anything about monotonization.

> __Theorem [monotone-sofa-structure].__ Let $S$ be any monotone sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Then $S$ is in standard position and $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$, and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of the cap $K$. ^thm-monotone-sofa-structure

# Definition of cap and niche

Now we give full details of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]]. We first rigorously define a cap and its niche. Define a _cap_ as a convex body satisfying certain properties.

> __Definition [angle-set].__ A set $\Theta$ is an _angle set_ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ if $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$ and $\Theta$ is closed. ^def-angle-set

> __Definition [cap].__ Let $\Theta$ be an angle set with rotation angle $\omega$. A _cap_ $K$ with _angle set_ $\Theta$ (and _rotation angle_ $\omega$) is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> 1. $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 0$ and $p_K(\pi + \omega) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 1$.
> 2. $K$ is an intersection of half-planes with normal angles in $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$.

Geometrically, the first condition of [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]] states that $K$ is contained in the parallelogram $P_\omega$ and touches all sides of $P_\omega$. Note that [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]] is not confined to any moving sofa yet. That is, for any convex body $K$ we can tell if it is a cap with angle set $\Theta$ or not without associating it to any moving sofa.

Define the _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ associated to any cap $K$ as the following set. Note that the formula of $\mathcal{N}(K)$ below is the formula of $N$ in [[10. Monotonization#^eqn-monotonization]] with the subscript $S$ replaced by the cap $K$.

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as the following. ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_K(t)
$$

Now we associate a particular cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ to any moving sofa $S$ in standard position. The formula of $\mathcal{C}(S)$ below comes from the set $K$ in [[10. Monotonization#^eqn-monotonization]].

> __Definition [cap-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Define the set ^def-cap-sofa
$$
\mathcal{C}(S) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t).
$$

We will show that the set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ confines to [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]], so that $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is indeed a cap with angle set $[0, \omega]$. This justifies calling $\mathcal{C}(S)$ _the cap of_ $S$.

> __Lemma [cap-hallway-intersection].__ The set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] is a cap with angle set $[0, \omega]$ as in [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]]. With this, call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the _cap of the moving sofa_ $S$. ^lem-cap-hallway-intersection

Unfortunately, proving [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-hallway-intersection]] requires some technical work. Define the following subset of $P_\omega$.

> __Definition [middle-set].__ For every $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define $M_\omega$ as the convex hull of the points $O, -u_\omega, -v_0,$ and $o_\omega$. ^def-middle-set

Geometrically, $M_\omega$ is a subset of $P_\omega$ enclosed by the perpendicular legs from $O$ to the bottom sides of $P_\omega$. We also introduce the following terminologies.

> __Definition [further-in-direction].__ Say that a point $p_1$ is _further than_ (resp. _strictly further than_) the point $p_2$ _in the direction_ of vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if $p_1 \cdot v \geq p_2 \cdot v$ (resp. $p_1 \cdot v > p_2 \cdot v$). ^def-further-in-direction

> __Definition [closed-in-direction].__ Say that a set $X \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2$ is _closed in the direction of_ vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if, for any $x \in X$ and $\lambda \geq 0$, we have $x + \lambda v \in X$. ^def-closed-in-direction

We show the following lemma.

> __Lemma [cap-contains-middle-set].__ The set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] contains $M_\omega$. ^lem-cap-contains-middle-set

_Proof._ From $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 0$, we can take points $q$ and $r$ of $S$ so that $q$ is on the line $l(\pi/2, 0)$ further than $O = (0, 0)$ in the direction of $-u_0$, and $r$ is on the line $l(\omega, 0)$ further than $O$ in the direction of $-v_\omega$. Take an arbitrary $t \in [0, \omega]$. Because $Q^+_S(t)$ is a right-angled convex cone with normal vectors $u_t$ and $v_t$ containing $q$ and $r$, $Q_S^+(t)$ also contains $O$. Because $Q_S^+(t)$ contains $O$ and is closed in the direction of $-u_t$ and $-v_t$, $Q_S^+(t)$ contains $M_\omega$ as a subset. □

Now we finish the proof of [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-hallway-intersection]], justifying that we can call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the cap of a moving sofa $S$.

_Proof._ (of [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-hallway-intersection]]) Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$. That $S \subseteq K$ is an immediate consequence of [[07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]]. We now show that $K$ is a cap with angle set $[0, \omega]$. By [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] and [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-contains-middle-set]] we have $M_\omega \subseteq K \subseteq P_\omega$. So the first condition of [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]] is satisfied. The second condition of [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]] comes from that $P_\omega$ is the intersection of four half-planes with normal angles $\omega, \pi/2, \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2$, and $Q_S^+(t)$ is an intersection of two half-planes with normal angles $t$ and $\pi/2 + t$. □

# Proof of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]] and [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]

> __Lemma [cap-same-support-function].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ be its cap. Then the support functions $p_S$, $p_{\mathcal{M}(S)}$, and $p_K$ of $S$, $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and $K$ agree on the set $[0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. ^lem-cap-same-support-function

_Proof._ We have $S \subseteq \mathcal{M}(S) \subseteq K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ by [[10. Monotonization#^cor-monotonization-is-larger]] and the definitions of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and $\mathcal{C}(S)$. So it remains to show that $p_K(t) \leq p_S(t)$ on every $t$ in the set $J := [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. Define $S' = \bigcap_{t \in J} H_S(t)$, then by convexity of $S$ we have $p_{S'}(t) = p_S(t)$ on every $t \in J$. By the definition of $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ we have $K \subseteq S'$, and so $p_K(t) \leq p_{S'}(t) = p_S(t)$ for all $t \in J$. □

We have two corollaries of [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]].

> __Corollary [cap-same-tangent-hallway].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ and $L_K(t)$ of $S$ and its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ are equal for any $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^cor-cap-same-tangent-hallway

> __Corollary [monotonization-cap].__ The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position shares the same cap with $S$. That is, $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{M}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S)$. ^cor-monotonization-cap

With [[10. Monotonization#^cor-cap-same-tangent-hallway]], we have $Q^-_S(t) = Q^-_K(t)$ in particular. Rewrite $Q_S^-(t)$ to $Q_K^-(t)$ in the equation [[10. Monotonization#^eqn-monotonization]], then it proves [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]] immediately by [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] and [[10. Monotonization#^def-niche]].

We also prove the variant [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]. A corollary of [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] and [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]] is the following.

Take any monotone sofa $S' = \mathcal{M}(S)$ which is the monotonization of moving sofa $S$. Then is equal to its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ subtracted by its niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ by [[#^thm-monotonization-structure]] and [[#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]]. 

> __Remark [monotonization-projection].__ Monotization $S \mapsto \mathcal{M}(S)$ of a moving sofa can be said as a 'projection' to monotone sofas in the sense that $\mathcal{M}$ is a surjective idempotent map that fixes monotone sofas. ^rem-monotonization-projection

# Proof of [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]]

We finally show the connectedness of the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of a moving sofa $S$ as promised using [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-structure]]. We will use the following terminology.

> __Definition [line-half-plane-directions].__ Any line $l$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ divides the plane into two half-planes. If $l$ is not parallel to the $y$-axis, call the _left side_ (resp. _right side_) of $l$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l$ containing the point $- Nu_0$ (resp. $Nu_0$) for a sufficiently large $N$. We mention the corresponding open half-plane as _strictly left side_ of $l$.
> 
 > Likewise, if $l$ is not parallel to the $x$-axis, call the _upper side_ (resp. _lower side_) of $l$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l$ containing the point $Nv_0$ (resp. $-Nv_0$) for sufficiently large $N$. ^def-line-half-plane-directions

Fix an arbitrary point $p$ in $\mathcal{M}(S)$. Take the line $l_\theta$ passing $p$ in the direction of $u_\theta$ for an arbitrary angle $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$. We show that $s_\theta = l_\theta \cap \mathcal{M}(S)$ is a nonempty line segment. The set $X = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^-_S(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-u_\theta$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-closed-in-direction]]). So $s_\theta$ is the line segment $l_\theta \cap \mathcal{C}(S)$ minus the half-line $l_\theta \setminus X$. Since $p \in s_\theta$, $s_\theta$ itself should be a nonempty line segment as well. Now if the line $l_\theta$ meets $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, then $p$ is connected to $S$ inside the line segment $s_\theta$ of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ and the proof is done. Our goal now is to prove that there is some $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ such that $l_\theta$ meets $S$.

Assume by contradiction that for every $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$ the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$. By [[10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]] the support function of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ agrees with that of $S$ on the set $[0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. Because $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(0) = l_S(0)$ or strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$. If $l_{\pi/2} = l_S(0)$ then $l_{\pi/2}$ contains some point of $S$, contradicting our assumption. So the line $l_{\pi/2}$ is strictly on the left side of $l_{S}(0)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$. Likewise, as $p \in \mathcal{M}(S)$, the line $l_{\omega}$ that passes through $p$ is either equal to $l_{\mathcal{M}(S)}(\omega + \pi/2) = l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ or strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$. The line $l_\omega$ cannot be equal to $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$ because we assumed that $l_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$. So the line $l_{\omega}$ is strictly on the right side of $l_S(\omega + \pi/2)$, and there is a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_{\omega}$.

Because the line $l_\theta$ is disjoint from $S$ for any $\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]$, the set $S$ is inside the set $Y = \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \bigcup_{\theta \in [\omega, \pi/2]} l_\theta$. Note that $Y$ has exactly two connected components $Y_L$ and $Y_R$ on the left and right side of $l_\theta$s respectively. As there is a point of $S$ strictly on the right side of $l_{\pi/2}$, the set $S \cap Y_R$ is nonempty. As there is also a point of $S$ strictly on the left side of $l_\omega$, the set $S \cap Y_L$ is also nonempty. We get contradiction as $S$ should be a connected subset of $Y$.