Here, we show that any monotone sofa $S$ is always equal to a _cap_ $K$ minus its _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ ([[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]; see [[01. Introduction/00. Preface#^fig-monotone-sofa]]). The key idea is in [[15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^eqn-monotonization]], which an eager reader may peek now before reading the details of this section.

Define a _cap_ as a convex body satisfying certain properties.

> __Definition [angle-set].__ A set $\Theta$ is an _angle set_ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ if $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$ and $\Theta$ is closed. ^def-angle-set

> __Definition [cap].__ Let $\Theta$ be an angle set with rotation angle $\omega$. A _cap_ $K$ with _angle set_ $\Theta$ (and _rotation angle_ $\omega$) is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> 1. $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\pi + \omega) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$.
> 2. $K$ is an intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles ([[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-half-plane]]) in $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$.

Geometrically, the first condition of [[#^def-cap]] states that $K$ is contained in the parallelogram $P_\omega$ and touches all sides of $P_\omega$. By [[20. Normal angles#^thm-convex-set-support]], the second condition of [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-cap]] is equivalent to saying that the _normal angles_ $\mathbf{n}(K)$ of $K$ defined in [[20. Normal angles#^def-convex-set-support]] is contained in the set $\Pi$; see [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles]] for a quick overview of $\mathbf{n}(K)$.

We will show that the set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] is a cap with angle set $[0, \omega]$. This justifies calling $\mathcal{C}(S)$ _the cap of_ $S$ associated to $S$. The proof is technical, so we delegate it at the end of this subsection.

> __Theorem [cap-hallway-intersection].__ The set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] is a cap with angle set $[0, \omega]$ as in [[#^def-cap]]. With this, call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the _cap of the moving sofa_ $S$. ^thm-cap-hallway-intersection

Define the _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ associated to any cap $K$.

> __Definition [fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _fan_ $F_\omega = H(\pi+\omega, 0) \cap H(3\pi/2, 0)$ with angle $\omega$ as the convex cone pointed at $O$ bounded by the bottom edges $l(\omega, 0)$ and $l(3\pi/2, 0)$ of the parallelogram $P_\omega$. ^def-fan

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as the following. ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_K(t)
$$

Now we establish the structure of any monotonization of a sofa.

> __Theorem [monotonization-structure].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ is equal to $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of sofa $S$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of the cap $K$. ^thm-monotonization-structure

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in a standard position. Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ be the cap of $S$. By breaking down each $L_S(t)$ into $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ can be represented as the following subtraction of two sets. ^eqn-monotonization
$$
\begin{split}
\mathcal{M}(S) & = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} L_S(t) \\
& = \left( P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} Q^-_S(t) \right) \\
& = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)
\end{split}
$$
By [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^cor-cap-same-tangent-hallway]] we have $Q_S^-(t) = Q_K^-(t)$. □

> __Remark [cap-niche-intuition].__ The equation [[#^eqn-monotonization]] can understood intuitively as the following (see [[01. Introduction/00. Preface#^fig-monotone-sofa]]). The cap $K$ is a convex body bounded from below by the boundary of fan $F_\omega$, and bounded from above by the outer walls $a_S(t)$ and $c_S(t)$ of $L_S(t)$. Imagine the set $K$ as a block of clay that rotates inside the hallway $L$ in the clockwise angle of $t \in [0, \omega]$ while always touching the outer walls $a$ and $c$ of $L$. As $K$ rotates inside $L$, the inner corner of $L$ carves out the niche $N$ which is the regions bounded by inner walls $b_S(t)$ and $d_S(t)$ of $L_S(t)$ from $K$. After the full movement of $K$, the final clay $K \setminus N$ is a moving sofa $\mathcal{M}(S)$. ^rem-cap-niche-intuition

A moving sofa $S$ and its monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ shares the same cap.

> __Proposition [monotonization-cap].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, we have $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{M}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S)$. ^pro-monotonization-cap

_Proof._ The set $\mathcal{C}(X)$ of $X = S, \mathcal{M}(S)$ depend only on the values of the support function $p_X$ on $[0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] and the equation $Q^+_X(t) = H_X(t) \cap H_X(t + \pi/2)$ in [[15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-rotating-hallway-parts]]. The support functions of $S$ and $\mathcal{M}(S)$ match on $[0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^lem-cap-same-support-function]], completing the proof. □

We will always use the intrinsic variant [[#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] of [[#^thm-monotonization-structure]] to represent any monotone sofa $S$ as its cap minus niche.

> __Theorem [monotone-sofa-structure].__ Let $S$ be any monotone sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Then $S$ is in standard position and $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K := \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$, and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is the niche of the cap $K$.
> ^thm-monotone-sofa-structure

_Proof._ Let $S = \mathcal{M}(S')$ be any monotone sofa, so that it is the monotonization of a moving sofa $S'$ in standard position. Then $K := \mathcal{C}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S')$ by [[#^pro-monotonization-cap]]. Now apply [[#^thm-monotonization-structure]] to $\mathcal{M}(S')$ to conclude that $S = \mathcal{M}(S') = \mathcal{C}(S') \setminus \mathcal{N}(\mathcal{C}(S')) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$. □

Note that this variant does not mention anything about monotonization. In particular, by [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] any monotone sofa $S$ can be recovered from its cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$.

Monotization $S \mapsto \mathcal{M}(S)$ is a process that enlarges any moving sofa $S$ by [[10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]]. Moreover, if $S$ is already monotone (so that $S = \mathcal{M}(S')$ for some $S'$), then the monotonization fixes $S$.

> __Theorem [monotonization-fixpoint].__ For any monotone sofa $S$, we have $\mathcal{M}(S) = S$.
> ^thm-monotonization-fixpoint

_Proof._ Since $S$ is monotone, $S = \mathcal{M}(S')$ for some other moving sofa $S'$. Now check
$$
\mathcal{M}(S) = \mathcal{C}(S) \setminus \mathcal{N}(\mathcal{C}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S') \setminus \mathcal{N}(\mathcal{C}(S')) = \mathcal{M}(S') = S
$$
which holds from [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotonization-structure]] and [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^cor-monotonization-cap]]. □

Thus, the monotonization $S \mapsto \mathcal{M}(S)$ can be said as a 'projection' from all moving sofas to monotone sofas, in the sense that $\mathcal{M}$ is a surjective map that fixes monotone sofas.

# Proof of [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]]

If $\omega = \pi / 2$, then the set $P_\omega$ is the horizontal strip $H$. If $\omega < \pi/2$, $P_\omega$ is a proper parallelogram with the following points as vertices.

> __Definition [parallelogram-vertices].__ Let $O = (0, 0)$ be the origin. For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, define the point $o_\omega = (\tan(\omega/2), 1)$. ^def-parallelogram-vertices

Note that if $\omega < \pi/2$, then $O$ is the lower-left corner of $P_\omega$ and $o_{\omega} = l(\omega, 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ is the upper-right corner of $P_\omega$. Define the following subset of $P_\omega$.

> __Definition [middle-set].__ Let $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ be arbitrary. Define $M_\omega$ as the convex hull of the points $O, o_\omega, o_\omega-u_\omega, o_\omega-v_0$. ^def-middle-set

Geometrically, $M_\omega$ is a subset of $P_\omega$ enclosed by the perpendicular legs from $o_\omega$ to the bottom sides $l(\omega, 0)$ and $l(\pi/2, 0)$ of $P_\omega$. We also introduce the following terminology.

> __Definition [further-in-direction].__ Say that a point $p_1$ is _further than_ (resp. _strictly further than_) the point $p_2$ _in the direction_ of vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if $p_1 \cdot v \geq p_2 \cdot v$ (resp. $p_1 \cdot v > p_2 \cdot v$). ^def-further-in-direction

We show the following lemma.

> __Lemma [cap-contains-middle-set].__ If $\omega < \pi/2$, then the set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] contains $M_\omega$. ^lem-cap-contains-middle-set

_Proof._ Since $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$, we can take points $q$ and $r$ of $S$ so that $q$ is on the line $l(\pi/2, 1)$ further than $o_\omega$ in the direction of $-u_0$, and $r$ is on the line $l(\omega, 1)$ further than $o_\omega$ in the direction of $-v_\omega$. Take an arbitrary $t \in [0, \omega]$. Because $Q^+_S(t)$ is a right-angled convex cone with normal vectors $u_t$ and $v_t$ containing $q$ and $r$, $Q_S^+(t)$ also contains $o_\omega$. Because $Q_S^+(t)$ contains $o_\omega$ and is closed in the direction of $-u_t$ and $-v_t$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-closed-in-direction]]), $Q_S^+(t)$ contains $M_\omega$ as a subset. □

We finish the proof of [[#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]].

_Proof._ (of [[#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]]) Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. Let $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$. That $S \subseteq K$ is an immediate consequence of the third condition of [[07. Tangent hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]]. We now show that $K$ is a cap with angle set $[0, \omega]$. 

Assume the case $\omega < \pi/2$. Then by [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]] and [[#^lem-cap-contains-middle-set]] we have $M_\omega \subseteq K \subseteq P_\omega$, and the support function of $M_\omega$ and $P_\omega$ agree on the angles $\omega, \pi/2, \omega + \pi, 3\pi/2$. So the first condition of [[#^def-cap]] is satisfied. Now assume $\omega = \pi/2$. Since $S \subseteq K \subseteq H$ and $S$ is in standard position we have $p_S(\pi/2) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$. With $p_K(\pi/2) = 1$, take the point $z \in K$ on the line $y=1$. Let $X := \bigcap_{t \in [0, \pi/2]} Q_S^+(t)$, then by the definition of $K$ we have $K = H \cap X$. Since $X$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$, the point $z' = z - (0, 1)$ is also in $X$. So $z' \in H \cap X = K$ and $z'$ is on the line $y=0$. This implies that $p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$.

The set $P_\omega$ is the intersection of four half-planes with normal angles $\omega, \pi/2, \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2$. The set $Q_S^+(t)$ is an intersection of two half-planes with normal angles $t$ and $t + \pi/2$. Now the second condition of [[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]] follows. □