The shape of Gerver's sofa resembles a retro-style telephone handset, with the bottom side of the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa carved out by its niche $\mathcal{N}(K_G)$. We will show any monotone sofa $S$ looks similarly.

> __Theorem [niche-in-cap].__ For any monotone sofa $S$, the cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ contains the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. ^thm-niche-in-cap

[[15. Sofa Area Functional#^thm-niche-in-cap]] is very important as it allows us to understand the area of a monotone sofa $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ by understanding the area of cap and niche separately. Also observe that the area of $S$ depends solely on the cap $K$. With [[15. Sofa Area Functional#^thm-niche-in-cap]], we can turn the moving sofa problem into maximizing the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ of an arbitrary cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-space].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and a closed set of angles $\Theta$ such that $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$, define $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ as the _space of all caps_ with the _angle set_ $\Theta$. For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, denote the space $\mathcal{K}_{[0, \omega]}$ as simply $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^def-cap-space

> __Definition [sofa-area-functional].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and a closed angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$, define the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\Theta \to \mathbb{R}$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ as $\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. ^def-sofa-area-functional

Fix an arbitrary angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Define $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ as the subset of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ consisting of the caps of monotone sofas. Using [[15. Sofa Area Functional#^thm-niche-in-cap]], maximizing the area of a moving sofa is exactly maximizing the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ on the subset $\mathcal{M}_\omega$. Note that $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ is a proper subset of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. For example, if the cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is too wide in width, then the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ may extrude out of $K$ so that $K$ cannot be the cap of a monotone sofa.
So if $K$ is the cap of a monotone sofa $S$, then $\mathcal{A}(K)$ is the area of $S$. Note however that not every $K$ in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is a cap of some monotone sofa. For example, if $K$ is too wide in width, then the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ may extrude out of $K$, so that it is impossible for the disconnected set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ to be a moving sofa. However,  it will be much easier to consider the optimization of area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ over all $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. With this, we generalize [[01. Moving Sofa Problem#^con-gerver]] as the following.

> __Conjecture [gerver-cap].__ The cap $K = K_G$ of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum value of the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ over all rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and caps $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^con-gerver-cap

[[03. Space of Caps#^con-gerver-cap]] implies [[01. Moving Sofa Problem#^con-gerver]], because for any other monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K$, we have $|S| = \mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}(K_G) = |S_G|$ assuming [[03. Space of Caps#^con-gerver-cap]]. However, [[03. Space of Caps#^con-gerver-cap]] is stronger than [[01. Moving Sofa Problem#^con-gerver]] because it also says that $\mathcal{A}(K_G) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ for the caps $K$ that might not be a cap of a monotone sofa.

# Proof of [[#^thm-niche-in-cap]]

We now show [[15. Sofa Area Functional#^thm-niche-in-cap]]. We need to prepare a handful of geometric definitions. Define the _vertices_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-vertices].__ Let $K$ be a cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. For any $t \in \Theta$, define the vertices $A^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t)$, $A^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t)$,  $C^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t + \pi/2)$, and $C^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t + \pi/2)$ of $K$. ^def-cap-vertices

Note that the outer wall $a_K(t)$ (resp. $c_K(t)$) of $L_K(t)$ touches the cap $K$ at the vertices $A_K^+(t)$ and $A_K^-(t)$ (resp. $C_K^+(t)$ and $C_K^-(t)$) respectively. We also define the _upper boundary_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [upper-boundary-of-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the _upper boundary_ $\delta K$ of $K$ as the set $\delta K = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]} e_K(t)$. ^def-upper-boundary-of-cap

Note that for a cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$, the upper boundary $\delta K$ is exactly the points touched by the outer walls $a_K(t)$ and $c_K(t)$ of tangent hallways $L_K(t)$ touch $K$ for every $t \in \Theta$. Also note that unless $K$ is the vertical line segment $\left\{ 0 \right\}\times [0, 1]$, $K$ has nonempty interior and so $\delta K$ is a Jordan arc connecting the endpoints $A_K^-(0)$ and $C_K^+(\omega)$.

We will use Defintion xx, yy, and zz here.
We show that $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. The values $w_K(t)$ and $z_K(t)$ will be important in later chapters.

> __Definition [further-in-direction].__ Say that a point $p_1$ is _further than_ the point $p_2$ _in the direction_ of vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$ if $p_1 \cdot v \geq p_2 \cdot v$. ^def-further-in-direction

> __Lemma [wedge-ends-in-cap].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. For any angle $t \in (0, \omega)$, we have $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. ^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap

_Proof._ To show that $w_K(t) \geq 0$, we need to show that the point $v_K^-(0)$ is further than the point $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. The point $q = a_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ is further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$, because the lines $a_K(t)$ and $b_K(t)$ form the boundary of a unit-width vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $t$. The point $A^-_K(t)$ is further than $q = a_K(t) \cap a_K(\pi/2)$ in the direction of $u_0$ because $K$ is a convex body. Finally, the point $A^-_K(0)$ is further than $A_K^-(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ again because $K$ is a convex body. Summing up, the points $W_K(t), q, A_K^-(t), A_K^-(0)$ are aligned in the direction of $u_0$, completing the proof. A symmetric argument in the direction of $v_\omega$ proves $z_K(t) \geq 0$. □

We factor out a part of the proof that $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is contained in $K$.

> __Lemma [niche-in-cap].__ Fix any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$. If the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in $K$, then the wedge $T_K(t)$ is a subset of $K$. ^lem-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ We divide the proof into four cases, on whether the origin $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below the lines $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$ or not respectively.

- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then the corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is outside the interior $F_\omega^\circ$ of fan $F_\omega$, and so $T_K(t)$ is an empty set.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above $b_K(t)$ but lies strictly below $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a triangle with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the intersection $p = l(\omega, 0) \cap b_K(t)$. In this case the point $p$ is in the line segment connecting $Z_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. Also, as $z_K(t) \geq 0$ ([[07. Tangent Hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]]) the point $Z_K(t)$ lies in the segment connecting $C^+_K(\omega)$ and the origin $(0, 0)$. So the points $\mathbf{x}_K(t), Z_K(t), p$ are in $K$ and by convexity of $K$ we have $T \subseteq K$.
- The case where $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below $b_K(t)$ but lies on or above $d_K(t)$ can be handed by an argument symmetric to the previous case.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a quadrilateral with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$, $W_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. As $w_K(t) \geq 0$ (resp. $z_K(t) \geq 0$) by [[07. Tangent Hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $W_K(t)$ (resp. $Z_K(t)$) is in the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $A^-_K(0)$ (resp. $C^+_K(\omega)$). So all the vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$, and $T_K(t)$ is in $K$ by convexity.

□

Now we prove that $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is contained in $K$. In fact, we identify the exact condition where $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is contained in $K$ for a general cap $K$ that may or may not be a cap of a monotone sofa.

> __Theorem [monotonization-connected-iff].__ Let $K$ be any cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. Then the followings are all equivalent. ^thm-monotonization-connected-iff
> 
> 1. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$
> 2. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K \setminus \delta K$
> 3. For any $t \in \Theta$, either $\mathbf{x}(t) \not\in F_\omega^\circ$ or $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$.
> 4. The set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected.

_Proof._ The conditions 1 and 2 are equivalent because the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is open in the subset topology of $F_\omega$, and the set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$.

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) We will prove the contraposition and assume $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$. Then a neighborhood of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $F_\omega$ and disjoint from $K$, so a portion of $T_K(t)$ is outside $K$, showing $\mathcal{N}(K) \not\subseteq K \setminus \delta K$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 1) If $\mathbf{x}(t) \not \in F_\omega^\circ$, then $T_K(t)$ is an empty set. If $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$, then by [[07. Tangent Hallway#^lem-niche-in-cap]] we have $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 4) As $\delta K$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$, we have $\delta K \subseteq S$. We show that $S$ is connected. First, note that $\delta K$ is connected. Next, take any point $p \in S$. Take the half-line $r$ starting from $p$ in the upward direction $v_0$. Then $r$ touches a point in $\delta K$ as $p \in K$. Moreover, $r$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$ as the set $\mathcal{N}(K) \cup (\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega)$ is closed in the direction $-v_0$. Now $r \cap K$ is a line segment inside $S$ that connects the arbitrarily chosen point $p \in S$ to a point in $\delta K$. So $S$ is connected.

(4 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Assume by contradiction that $\mathbf{x}(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ for some $t \in \Theta$. We first show that the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is disjoint from $S$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}(t)$ and direction $v_0$ is disjoint from $K$ as the set $F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ is closed in the direction of $v_0$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}(t)$ and direction $-v_0$ is not in $S$ because $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is the corner of $Q_K^-(t)$ and $Q_K^-(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$. So the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ does not overlap with $S$.

Now separate the horizontal strip $H$ into two chunks by the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$. As $S$ is connected, $S$ should lie either strictly on left or strictly on right of $l$. As $\mathbf{x}(t)$ lies strictly inside $F_\omega$, the point $W_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$, and by [[07. Tangent Hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] the point $A_K^-(0)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. So the endpoint $A_K^-(0)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the right side of $l$. Similarly, the points $Z_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$, and by [[07. Tangent Hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] the point $C_K^+(\omega)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$. So the endpoint $C^+_K(\omega)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the left side of $l$. As the endpoints $A^-_K(0)$ and $C^+_K(\omega)$ are in $\mathcal{M}(K)$ by [[07. Tangent Hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], and the line $l$ separates the two points, $l$ divides $\mathcal{M}(K)$ and so $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is disconnected. □

> __Corollary [niche-in-cap].__ For any monotone sofa $S$, the cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ contains the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. ^cor-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ Because $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected by [[07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]], [[07. Tangent Hallway#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]] implies that $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$. □