In this subsection, we will establish the following theorem. 

> __Theorem [niche-in-cap].__ For any monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$, the cap $K$ contains the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. ^thm-niche-in-cap

Note that $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ by [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]. With [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]], the area $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ of a monotone sofa can be understood separately in terms of its cap and niche.

> __Remark [niche-not-in-cap].__ In spite of [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]], a general cap $K$ following [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-cap]] may not always contain its niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ in [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-niche]]; this happens if $K$ is too wide. In this case, the cap $K$ is never the cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ associated to a particular moving sofa $S$ as in [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]]. [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]] identifies the exact condition of $K$ where $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$. ^rem-niche-not-in-cap

# Geometric definitions on cap and niche

We need a handful of geometric definitions to prove [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]]. Define the _vertices_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-vertices].__ Let $K$ be a cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. For any $t \in \Theta$, define the vertices $A^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t)$, $A^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t)$,  $C^+_K(t) = v^+_K(t + \pi/2)$, and $C^-_K(t) = v^-_K(t + \pi/2)$ of $K$. ^def-cap-vertices

Note that the outer wall $a_K(t)$ (resp. $c_K(t)$) of $L_K(t)$ is in contact with the cap $K$ at the vertices $A_K^+(t)$ and $A_K^-(t)$ (resp. $C_K^+(t)$ and $C_K^-(t)$) respectively. We also define the _upper boundary_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [upper-boundary-of-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$, define the _upper boundary_ $\delta K$ of $K$ as the set $\delta K = \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]} e_K(t)$. ^def-upper-boundary-of-cap

For any cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$, the upper boundary $\delta K$ is exactly the points of $K$ making contact with the outer walls $a_K(t)$ and $c_K(t)$ of tangent hallways $L_K(t)$ for every $t \in \Theta$. We collect some observations on $\delta K$.

> __Proposition [upper-boundary-interior].__ Let $K$ be a cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. The set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$. ^pro-upper-boundary-interior

_Proof._ Since $K$ and $F_\omega$ are closed in $\mathbb{R}^2$, the set $K$ is closed in the subset topology of $F_\omega$. Let $X$ be the boundary of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$, then we have $X \subseteq K$ because $K$ is closed in the subset topology of $F_\omega$. We will show that $\delta K$ is equal to $X$, then it follows that the set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$.

We show $\delta K \subseteq X$ and $X \subseteq \delta K$ respectively. Take any point $z$ of $\delta K$. Then $z \in e_K(t)$ for some $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$. Since $K$ is a planar convex body, for any $\epsilon > 0$ the point $z' = z + \epsilon u_t$ is not in $K$. Since the set $F_\omega$ is closed in the direction of $u_t$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-closed-in-direction]]), the point $z'$ is also in $F_\omega$. Thus we have a point $z'$ in the neighborhood of $z$ which is outside $K$, and $\delta K$ is a subset of $X$.

On the other hand, take any point $z$ of $X$ and assume by contradiction that $z \in K \setminus \delta K$. Then for every $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$ we have $z \not \in e_K(t)$ so that $z \cdot u_t < p_K(t)$. Since $p_K$ is continuous, the value $p_K(t) - z \cdot u_t$ has a global lower bound $\epsilon > 0$ on the compact interval $[0, \omega + \pi/2]$. So an open ball $U$ of radius $\epsilon$ centered at $z$ is contained in the half-space $H_K(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega + \pi/2]$. Now $U \cap F_\omega \subseteq K$ and so $z \not\in X$, leading to contradiction. □

Geometrically, the upper boundary $\delta K$ is an arc from $A_K^-(0)$ to $C_K^+(\omega)$ in the counterclockwise direction along the boundary $\partial K$ of $K$. This is rigorously justified by the following corollary of [[A1. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-closed-param-segment]]. For full details, see the introduction of [[A1. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary]].

> __Corollary [upper-boundary-param].__ Let $K$ be a cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. The upper boundary $\delta K$ admits an absolutely-continuous, arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{b}_K^{0-, \pi/2 + \omega}$ ([[15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-closed-param]]) from $A_K^-(0)$ to $C_K^+(\omega)$ in the counterclockwise direction along $\partial K$. ^cor-upper-boundary-param

We also give name to the convex polygons $F_\omega \cap Q^-_K(t)$ whose union over all $t \in \Theta$ constitutes the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$.

> __Definition [wedge].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define $T_K(t) = F_\omega \cap Q^-_K(t)$ as the _wedge_ of $K$ with angle $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^def-wedge

> __Proposition [wedge].__ For any cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$, we have $\mathcal{N}(K) = \cup_{t \in \Theta} T_K(t)$. ^pro-wedge

_Proof._ Immediate from [[15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-niche]]. □

We give names to the parts of the wedge $T_K(t)$.

> __Definition [wedge-side-lengths].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$, define $W_K(t)$ as the intersection of lines $b_K(t)$ and $l(\pi, 0)$. Define $w_K(t) = (A_K^-(0) - W_K(t)) \cdot u_0$ as the signed distance from point $W_K(t)$ and the vertex $A_K^-(0)$ along the line $l(\pi, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$.
> 
> Likewise, define $Z_K(t)$ as the intersection of lines $d_K(t)$ and $l(\omega, 0)$. Define $z_K(t) = (C_K^+(\omega) - Z_K(t)) \cdot v_\omega$ as the signed length between $Z_K(t)$ and the vertex $C_K^+(\omega)$ along the line $l(\omega, 0)$ in the direction of $v_\omega$.
> ^def-wedge-side-lengths

Note that if $T_K(t)$ contains the origin $O$, then the points $W_K(t)$ and $Z_K(t)$ are the leftmost and rightmost point of $\overline{T_K(t)}$ respectively.

# Controlling the wedge inside cap

To show $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$ we need to control each wedge $T_K(t)$ inside $K$. First we show that $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$; this controls the endpoints $W_K(t)$ and $Z_K(t)$ of $T_K(t)$ inside $K$.

> __Lemma [wedge-ends-in-cap].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. For any angle $t \in (0, \omega)$, we have $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$. ^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap

_Proof._ To show that $w_K(t) \geq 0$, we need to show that the point $A_K^-(0)$ is further than the point $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ (see [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-further-in-direction]] for the terminology). The point $q := a_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ is further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$, because the lines $a_K(t)$ and $b_K(t)$ form the boundary of a unit-width vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $t$. The point $A^-_K(t)$ is further than $q = a_K(t) \cap a_K(\pi/2)$ in the direction of $u_0$ because $K$ is a convex body. Finally, the point $A^-_K(0)$ is further than $A_K^-(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$ because $K$ is a convex body. Summing up, the points $W_K(t), q, A_K^-(t), A_K^-(0)$ are aligned in the direction of $u_0$, completing the proof. A symmetric argument in the direction of $v_\omega$ proves $z_K(t) \geq 0$. □

> __Corollary [cap-ends-not-in-niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega$. Then $A^-_K(0), C^+_K(\omega) \in K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$.
> ^cor-cap-ends-not-in-niche

_Proof._ We only need to show that $A^-_K(0), C^+_K(\omega)$ are not in $\mathcal{N}(K)$. That is, for any $t \in (0, \omega)$ neither points are in $T_K(t)$. Since $w_K(t) \geq 0$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/15. Cap contains niche#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $A_K^-(0)$ is on the right side of the boundary $b_K(t)$ of $T_K(t)$. So $A_K^-(0) \not\in T_K(t)$. Similarly, $z_K(t) \geq 0$ implies $C_K^+(\omega) \not\in T_K(t)$. □

We then show that if the corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $K$, then the whole wedge $T_K(t)$ is always inside $K$.

> __Lemma [niche-in-cap].__ Fix any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and an angle $t \in (0, \omega)$. If the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in $K$, then the wedge $T_K(t)$ is a subset of $K$. ^lem-niche-in-cap

_Proof._ Assume that $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$.

If $\omega = \pi/2$, then by $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$, the wedge $T_K(t)$ is the triangle with vertices $W_K(t)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, and $Z_K(t)$ in counterclockwise order. Note also that $W_K(t)$ is further in the direction of $u_0$ than $Z_K(t)$. As $w_K(t), z_K(t) \geq 0$, this implies that all three vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$.

If $\omega < \pi/2$, we divide the proof into four cases on whether the origin $O$ lies strictly below the lines $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$ or not respectively.

- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then we get contradiction as the corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ should be outside the interior $F_\omega^\circ$ of fan $F_\omega$, but $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies on or above $b_K(t)$ but lies strictly below $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a triangle with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the intersection $p = l(\omega, 0) \cap b_K(t)$. In this case, the point $p$ is in the line segment connecting $Z_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. Also, as $z_K(t) \geq 0$ ([[07. Tangent hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]]) the point $Z_K(t)$ lies in the segment connecting $C^+_K(\omega)$ and the origin $(0, 0)$. So the points $\mathbf{x}_K(t), Z_K(t), p$ are in $K$ and by convexity of $K$ we have $T \subseteq K$.
- The case where $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below $b_K(t)$ but lies on or above $d_K(t)$ can be handed by an argument symmetric to the previous case.
- If $(0, 0)$ lies strictly below both $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$, then $T_K(t)$ is a quadrilateral with vertices $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$, $W_K(t)$ and $(0, 0)$. As $w_K(t) \geq 0$ (resp. $z_K(t) \geq 0$) by [[07. Tangent hallway#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $W_K(t)$ (resp. $Z_K(t)$) is in the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $A^-_K(0)$ (resp. $C^+_K(\omega)$). So all the vertices of $T_K(t)$ are in $K$, and $T_K(t)$ is in $K$ by convexity.

□

# Equivalent conditions for $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$

Now we prove [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]]. In fact, we identify the exact condition where $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$ for a general cap $K$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-cap]]) not necessary associated to a moving sofa.

> __Theorem [monotonization-connected-iff].__ Let $K$ be any cap with angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega$. Then the followings are all equivalent. ^thm-monotonization-connected-iff
> 
> 1. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K$
> 2. $\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq K \setminus \delta K$
> 3. For every $t \in \Theta$, either $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \not\in F_\omega^\circ$ or $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in K$.
> 4. The set $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is connected.

_Proof._ The conditions 1 and 2 are equivalent because the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is open in the subset topology of $F_\omega$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-niche]], and the set $K \setminus \delta K$ is the interior of $K$ in the subset topology of $F_\omega$ by [[15. Cap contains niche#^pro-upper-boundary-interior]].

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) We will prove the contraposition and assume $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$. Then a neighborhood of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $F_\omega$ and disjoint from $K$, so a subset of $T_K(t)$ is outside $K$, showing $\mathcal{N}(K) \not\subseteq K \setminus \delta K$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 1) If $\mathbf{x}(t) \not \in F_\omega^\circ$, then $T_K(t)$ is an empty set. If $\mathbf{x}(t) \in K$, then by [[#^lem-niche-in-cap]] we have $T_K(t) \subseteq K$.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 4) As $\delta K$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$, we have $\delta K \subseteq S$. We show that $S$ is connected. First, note that $\delta K$ is connected by [[15. Cap contains niche#^cor-upper-boundary-param]]. Next, take any point $p \in S$. Take the half-line $r$ starting from $p$ in the upward direction $v_0$. Then $r$ touches a point in $\delta K$ as $p \in K$. Moreover, $r$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$ as the set $\mathcal{N}(K) \cup (\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega)$ is closed in the direction $-v_0$. Now $r \cap K$ is a line segment inside $S$ that connects the arbitrary point $p \in S$ to a point in $\delta K$. So $S$ is connected.

(4 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Assume by contradiction that $\mathbf{x}(t) \in F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ for some $t \in \Theta$. Then it should be that $t \neq 0$ or $\omega$. We first show that the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ in the direction of $v_0$ is disjoint from $S$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}(t)$ and direction $v_0$ is disjoint from $K$ as the set $F_\omega^\circ \setminus K$ is closed in the direction of $v_0$. The ray with initial point $\mathbf{x}(t)$ and direction $-v_0$ is not in $S$ because $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is the corner of $Q_K^-(t)$, and $Q_K^-(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$. So the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$ does not overlap with $S$.

Now separate the horizontal strip $H$ into two chunks by the vertical line $l$ passing through $\mathbf{x}(t)$. As $S$ is connected, $S$ should lie either strictly on left or strictly on right of $l$. As $\mathbf{x}(t)$ lies strictly inside $F_\omega$, the point $W_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$, and by [[#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] the point $A_K^-(0)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_0$. So the endpoint $A_K^-(0)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the right side of $l$. Similarly, the point $Z_K(t)$ is strictly further than $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$, and by [[#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] the point $C_K^+(\omega)$ is further than $W_K(t)$ in the direction of $-u_0$. So the endpoint $C^+_K(\omega)$ of $K$ lies strictly on the left side of $l$. As the endpoints $A^-_K(0)$ and $C^+_K(\omega)$ are in $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ by [[15. Monotone sofas/15. Cap contains niche#^cor-cap-ends-not-in-niche]], and the line $l$ separates the two points, the set $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ is disconnected. □

Now [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]] follows from that condition 4 implies condition 1 in [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]].