



This section focuses on proving [[a. Angle hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-main-balanced-angled]] and [[a. Angle hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-main-balanced-full-angle]]. The main idea is the _balancedness_ condition of optimum intersection used by Gerver.

In the theorems, the balancedness is one-sided, which is only needed for us to bound $h_K(\epsilon)$ in long term.

> __Definition [cap-space-angled].__ Let $\Theta$ be an angle set with rotation angle $\omega$. Define $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ as the collection of caps $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ such that $K$ is an intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$. ^def-cap-space-angled

Issues that I need to solve:

- Handle the problem that for angle 90 degrees, there is no 'pivot point' that separates two sides
- Define the wedge gap more clearly

- The Hausdorff norm is equivalent to the Hausdorff norm constrained to normal angles support
- 

# Extended cap space

We will make adjustments to a cap of some polygon sofa in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. Doing so may make a cap that is not in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ technically. We enlarge the space a little bit to $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$. The niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta$, wedge gaps $w_K^\Theta$, $z_K^\Theta$ extend naturally.

> __Definition [extended-cap-space].__ Let $\Theta$ be any angle set with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Define $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ as the collection of all convex bodies $K$ satisfying the following conditions. ^def-extended-cap-space
> 
> 1. $K$ is a convex body with normal angles in the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \left\{ \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$.
> 2. The width $p_K(\omega) + p_K(\omega + \pi)$ and $p_K(\pi/2) + p_K(3\pi/2)$ of $K$ measured along the directions $u_\omega$ and $v_0$ are at most 1.

We can extend the notion of the _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of a cap $K$ to all translates of $K$.

> __Definition [cap-translate-niche].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ be arbitary. Define the fan $F_K$ of $K$ as $H_K(\pi + \omega) \cap H_K(3\pi/2)$. Define the _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of $K$ as: ^def-cap-translate-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_K \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_K(t).
$$


# Balanced polygon optimum

The first step is to prove the balancedness condition for polygonal sofas ([[a. Angle hypothesis/03. Balanced polygon sofas#^thm-polygon-balanced-angled]]).

> __Definition [polygon-niche-gap].__ Let $\Theta$ be a finite angle set with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. For any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, define the followings. ^def-polygon-niche-gap
$$
\begin{gather*}
w_K^\Theta = \min \left( \min_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } w_K(t), p_K(0), 1 \right) \\
z_K^\Theta = \min \left( \min_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } z_K(t), \sigma_K(\omega + \pi), 1 \right) 
\end{gather*}
$$

> __Theorem [polygon-balanced-angled].__ Let $\Theta$ be a finite angle set with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2)$. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be any maximizer of the polygon area functional $\mathcal{A}_{\Theta}(K)$ on $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. Then it should be that $w_K^\Theta \leq \beta_K(\pi/2)$ and $z_K^\Theta \leq \beta_K\left(\omega\right)$. ^thm-polygon-balanced-angled

> __Theorem [polygon-balanced-full-angle].__ Let $\Theta$ be a finite angle set with rotation angle $\pi/2$. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be any maximizer of the polygon area functional $\mathcal{A}_{\Theta}(K)$ on $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. Then it should be that $w_K^\Theta + z_K^{\Theta} \leq \beta_K(\pi/2)$.
> ^thm-polygon-balanced-full-angle

We will later make $\Theta$ converge to a dense subset of $[0, \omega]$ to prove [[a. Angle hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-main-balanced-angled]] and [[a. Angle hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-main-balanced-full-angle]]. The extra constants $\sigma_K(3\pi/2), \sigma_K(\omega + \pi), 1$ in [[a. Angle hypothesis/03. Balanced polygon sofas#^def-polygon-niche-gap]] seems contribed. These are motivated by the following theorem. 

> __Theorem [niche-gap-limit].__ Take any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. Then the following limits hold.
$$
\begin{gather*}
\lim_{ t \to 0^+ } w_K(t) = 1 \qquad \limsup_{ t \to \omega^- } w_K(t) \leq \sigma_K(3\pi/2) \\
\limsup_{ t \to 0^+ } z_K(t) \leq \sigma_K(\omega + \pi) \qquad \lim_{ t \to \omega^- } w_K(t) = 1
\end{gather*}
$$
> ^thm-niche-gap-limit

> __Definition [niche-base].__ For any finite angle set $\Theta$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, define the followings.
$$
\begin{gather*}
\overline{w}_K^\Theta = \mathcal{H}^1\left( \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap l(\pi/2, 0) \right) \\
\overline{z}_K^\Theta = \mathcal{H}^1\left( \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap l(\omega, 0) \right)
\end{gather*}
$$
> ^def-niche-base

Denote $\mathcal{H}^1$ as the dimension one Hausdorff measure on $\mathbb{R}^2$. So if the set $X \subset \mathbb{R}^2$ is a disjoint union of line segments, then $\mathcal{H}^1(X)$ is the total sum of the lengths of the line segments constituting $X$. We observe that

> __Lemma [niche-gap-angled].__ For any finite angle set $\Theta$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2)$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, we have the following inequalities.
> 
> - $w_K^\Theta + \overline{w}_K^\Theta \leq \sigma_K( 3\pi/2 )$
> - $z_K^{\Theta} + \overline{z}_K^\Theta \leq \sigma_K(\omega + \pi)$ 
> ^lem-niche-gap-angled

_Proof._ We will prove the inequality $w_K^\Theta + \mathcal{H}^1\left( \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap l(\pi/2, 0) \right) \leq \sigma_K(\left\{ 3\pi/2 \right\})$. The other inequality can be shown similarly by appealing to the mirror symmetry of $K$.
$$
\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) = F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } Q_K^-(t)
$$


So $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap l(\pi/2, 0) \subseteq \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} T_K(t) \cap R_0$ 
Each $T_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ is either empty, or in the line segment connecting $O$ and $W_K(t)$.

The point $W_K(t)$ is on the line $l(\pi/2, 0)$. Now the ordering is either $O, W_K(t), A_K^-(0)$ or $W_K(t), O, A_K^-(0)$.
In the latter case, $T_K(t) \cap R_0$ is empty.
In the former case, it is always that $T_K(t) \cap R_0$ is a subset of the line connecting $O$ and $W_K(t)$.
So the length of $T_K(t) \cap R_0$ plus $w_K^{\Theta}$ is always less than $\sigma_K(3\pi/2)$.

□

We explicitly spell out a part of the logic used for balancedness.

_Proof._ Gather all the hyperplanes $H_1, \dots, H_M$ with boundaries $l_1, \dots, l_M$ and normal angles $t_1, \dots, t_M \in S^1$ not equal to $t_0$ or $t_0 + \pi$. So the plane $\mathbb{R}^2$ is divided into open polygonal chambers with the lines $l_i$ for $1 \leq i \leq M$. Call the set of lines $\mathcal{L}$. Without loss of generality, we can replace $X$ with $X \setminus \cup_{i=1}^{n} l_i$, because doing so does not change the area of $X$ nor the one-dimensional value $\mathcal{H}^1(l_0 \cap X)$. Now $X$ is a disjoint union of a finite number of open polygonal chambers divided by the lines in $\mathcal{L}$. By additivity, it suffices to assume that $X$ is one of the chambers. The result follows. □

We factor out a part of the lemma.

> __Lemma [niche-is-minimal].__ Let $\Theta$ be a finite angle set with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and size $\geq 3$. Let $\mathbf{x} : \Theta \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be a collection of vectors assigned for each $t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}$. Assume that $K$ is a member of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ such that $K \subseteq R_t(Q^+) + \mathbf{x}(t)$ for all $t \in \Theta$. Then we always have the followings. ^lem-niche-is-minimal
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq F_K \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} \left( R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)
$$

_Proof._ Since we have
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_K \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} \left(R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}_K(t) \right) 
$$
by definition, it remains to show $R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}_K(t) \subseteq R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}(t)$ for every $t \in \Theta$. This holds by the condition $K \subseteq R_t(Q^+) + \mathbf{x}(t)$. □

> __Lemma [area-functional-width-one].__ Let $K$ be the optimizer of $\mathcal{A}(K)$ over all $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$. Then the maximum is attained for $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$.
> ^lem-area-functional-width-one

_Proof._ We show that the width of $K$ measured along angle $\pi/2$. By the mirror symmetry, the width of $K$ along the angle $\omega$ is also one.

To increase the value of $\mathcal{A}$, push the lower part. □

A core idea is to bound union of $Q^-_K(t)$. This is hard to control. But the closed half-planes $B_K$ and $D_K$ bounded by lines $b_K(t)$ and $d_K(t)$ are disjoint from $Q^-_K(t)$. The rightmost intersection of $b_K(t)$ and the $x$-axis is called the $W_K^\circ$, so consequently the ray from $W_K^\circ$ to infinity is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$. 


_Proof._ (of [[a. Angle hypothesis/03. Balanced polygon sofas#^thm-polygon-balanced-angled]]) Denote $\beta_K(\left\{ \pi/2 \right\})$ and $\beta_K(\left\{ \omega \right\})$ by $b_0$ and $b_\omega$ respectively. Assume by contradiction that $w_K^\circ > b_0$ or $z_K^\circ > b_\omega$. We will adjust $K$ slightly to get another $K' \in \mathcal{K}_{\Theta}'$ such that $\mathcal{A}_{\Theta}(K) < \mathcal{A}_{\Theta}(K')$. Then since $K'$ is a translation of 

Note that
$$
K = (H + \mathbf{x}_K(0)) \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } (R_t(Q^+) + \mathbf{x}_K(t)) \cap (R_\omega(H) + \mathbf{x}_K(\omega))
$$
by definition of $K$. That is, $K$ is the intersection of translates of $H$, $R_\omega(H)$ and $R_t(L)$ determined by their locations $\mathbf{x}_K : \Theta \to \mathbb{R}^2$. We will make adjustments to the locations, so that we define a new set
$$
K' = (H + \mathbf{x}(0)) \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } (R_t(Q^+) + \mathbf{x}(t)) \cap (R_\omega(H) + \mathbf{x}(\omega))
$$
with new locations $\mathbf{x} : \Theta \to \mathbb{R}^2$. The new locations $\mathbf{x}$ are defined as following.

-  $\mathbf{x}(t) = \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ for all $t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}$, thus fixing the locations of translates of $R_t(L)$.
-  $\mathbf{x}(0) = \mathbf{x}_K(0) - \epsilon_0 u_0$ for sufficiently small $\epsilon_0 > 0$, thus moving the translate of $H$ slightly downwards by $\epsilon_0$.
-  $\mathbf{x}(\omega) = \mathbf{x}_K(\omega) - \epsilon_\omega v_\omega$ for sufficiently small $\epsilon_\omega > 0$, thus moving the translate of $R_\omega(H)$ slightly in the direction of $-u_\omega$ by $\epsilon_\omega$.

The new set $K'$ is a convex body with normal angles in the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \left\{ \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$ by definition. Now in order for $K'$ to be a member of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$, the set $K'$ has to have width one measured in the direction of $u_0$ and $v_\omega$. We control the values of $\epsilon_0$ and $\epsilon_\omega$ depending on a sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$ so that the widths of $K$ are always equal to one.

1. If $b_0 > 0$, then we set $\epsilon_0 = 0$ and $\epsilon_\omega = \epsilon$. 
2. If $b_\omega > 0$, then we set $\epsilon_\omega = 0$ and pushing only $\epsilon_0$ suffice.
3. If $b_0 = b_\omega = 0$, then we set $\epsilon_0 = \epsilon_\omega = \epsilon$.

Now we prove that $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) < \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K')$ for sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$. We first compare $|K|$ with $|K'|$. Letting
$$
P = (H + \mathbf{x}_K(0)) \cap (R_\omega(H) + \mathbf{x}_K(\omega)) \qquad X = \bigcap_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } (R_t(Q^+) + \mathbf{x}_K(t))
$$
in [[a. Angle hypothesis/03. Balanced polygon sofas#^thm-polygon-balanced-angled]], we obtain the following equality for sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$.
$$
|K'| = |K| + \left( \beta_K(\left\{ 3\pi/2 \right\}) - s_0 \right)  \epsilon_0 +
\left( \beta_K\left( \left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}  \right) - s_\omega \right)  \epsilon_\omega + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
We now compare $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K')$. Letting
$$
P = F_K \qquad X = \bigcup_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } \left( R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}_K(t) \right) 
$$
in [[a. Angle hypothesis/03. Balanced polygon sofas#^lem-perturbation]], we obtain the following equality.
$$
|\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K')| = |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)| +
\mathcal{H}^1\left( \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap \left\{ y=0 \right\}   \right)  \epsilon_0 +
\mathcal{H}^1\left( \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap l(\omega, 0)  \right) \epsilon_\omega + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
Subtract the two equalities to obtain
$$

$$
Note that the coefficient of $\epsilon_0$ is strictly positive. 
□

# Showing that the niche is contained in the cap

We have not yet showed that the niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ should be contained in the cap $K$. For polygon optimizer $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, we show it here.

Observe that the boundary of $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ is either the bottom edges of $F_\omega$, or the edges coming from $Q_K^-(t)$. The total length of edges contributed by the lines

# Taking limit of balanced optimal polygons

