Here, we prepare the [[#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] that captures the balancedness argument of Gerver using Nef polygons. A _Nef polygon_ is a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that can be obtained by applying a finite number of boolean operations (e.g. taking complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus X$ of a set $X$, or taking the intersection $X_1 \cap X_2$ of two sets $X_1, X_2$) to a finite collection of closed half-planes. We give the following formal definition.

> __Definition [boolean-function].__ Let $\textsf{true}$ and $\textsf{false}$ be the constants denoting the truth value of a predicate (e.g., $1+1=2$ is $\textsf{true}$, but $1 + 2 = 4$ is $\textsf{false}$). An _$n$-ary boolean function_ $\mathcal{E}$ is a function from $\left\{ \textsf{true}, \textsf{false} \right\}^n$ to $\left\{ \textsf{true}, \textsf{false} \right\}$.
> ^def-boolean-function

> __Definition [nef-polygon].__ For any $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and $n$ closed half-planes $H_1, \dots, H_n$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$, define the set 
$$
\mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n) := \left\{ p \in \mathbb{R}^2 : \mathcal{E}(p \in H_1, \dots,p \in H_n) \text{ is } \textsf{true} \right\}.
$$
> Call any such set $X = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ a _Nef polygon_. ^def-nef-polygon

For our use, we introduce the notion of a _simple_ Nef polygon.

> __Definition [simple-nef-polygon].__ Call a Nef polygon $X$ _simple_ if $X = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ for an $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and closed half-planes $H_1, \dots, H_n$ with different boundaries $l_1, \dots, l_n$.
> ^def-simple-nef-polygon

A line $l$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is a Nef polygon, since we can intersect the two closed half-planes $H_l^+$ and $H_l^-$ with boundary $l$ to express $l = H_l^+ \cap H_l^-$. However, $l$ is not simple because the half-planes $H_l^+$ and $H_l^-$ used in the expression of $l$ use the same boundary. Using [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^def-simple-nef-polygon]], we can spell out the idea of balancedness by Gerver precisely.

> __Theorem [nef-polygon-area-diff].__ Fix an arbitrary simple Nef polygon $P = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ defined with $n$ closed half-planes $H_i = H(t_i, h_i)$ for $1 \leq i \leq n$, each of different boundary $l_i$. Assume also that $P$ is closed. Then there is an absolute constant $\epsilon = \epsilon(P) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff
> 
> Let $\delta_1, \dots, \delta_n$ be real values with absolute value less than $\epsilon$. Define $P' = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1', \dots, H_n')$ where $H_i' = H(t_i, h_i + \delta_i)$  for $1 \leq i \leq n$. Then we have
$$
\left| P' \right| = |P| + \sum_{i=1}^n \mathcal{H}^1(\partial P \cap l_i ) \cdot \delta_i + O(\delta_1^2 + \delta_2^2 + \dots + \delta_n^2).
$$

The proof of [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] will be done by proving smaller cases and building up on it.

> __Lemma [nef-polygon-half-plane].__ Let $H_0 = H(t, h)$ be a half-plane with boundary $l_0$. Let $X = \mathcal{E}_X(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ be a (not necessarily simple) Nef polygon defined with $m$ closed half-planes $H_i$ with boundaries $l_i$ ($1 \leq i \leq n$) different from $l_0$. Then there exists an absolute constant $\epsilon = \epsilon(H_0, X) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^lem-nef-polygon-half-plane
> 
> Let $\delta$ be a real value with absolute value less than $\epsilon$. Let $H_0' = H(t, h + \delta)$. Then
$$
|H_0' \cap X| = |H_0 \cap X| + \mathcal{H}^1(l_0 \cap X) \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$

_Proof._ Let $\mathcal{L}$ be the collection $\left\{ l_1, \dots, l_n \right\}$ of the boundaries of $H_i$ for all $1 \leq i \leq n$. Since no lines in $\mathcal{L}$ is equal to $l_0$, the line $l_0$ and the union $\cup \mathcal{L}$ of all lines in $\mathcal{L}$ intersect in a finite set of points. Thus, without loss of generality we can replace $X$ with $X \setminus \cup \mathcal{L}$ (the values of $|H_0' \cap X|$, $|H_0 \cap X|$ and $\mathcal{H}^1 (l_0 \cap X)$ will not change). By doing so, $X$ is a finite disjoint union of open convex polygons, each bounded by some lines in $\mathcal{L}$. Using the additivity of measures, we can also assume without loss of generality that $X$ is an open convex polygon with edges in $\mathcal{L}$. 

Assuming that $X$ is an open convex polygon with edges in $\mathcal{L}$, the function $f(x) = \mathcal{H}^1(l(t, x) \cap X)$ is now a Lipschitz function with respect to $x$ near $x = h$, since the boundaries of $X$ are not equal to $l_0 = l(t, h)$. Moreover, we have
$$
|H(t, x) \cap X| = \int_{-\infty}^x f(u)\,du.
$$
Approximating this value $g(x) := |H(t, x) \cap X|$ near $x = h$, we get the linear estimate $g(h + \delta) = g(h) + f(h) \delta + O(\delta^2)$ as claimed in the statement. □

The following [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]] is a special case of [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] where we set $\delta_i = 0$ for all index $i$ except for $i=j$.

> __Lemma [nef-polygon-single-edge].__ Let $P = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ be a simple Nef polygon defined with $n$ closed half-planes $H_i = H(t_i, h_i)$ for $1 \leq i \leq n$, each of different boundary $l_i$. Assume also that $P$ is closed. Fix an arbitrary index $1 \leq j \leq n$. There exists an absolute constant $\epsilon = \epsilon(P, j) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge
> 
> Let $\delta$ be a real value with absolute value less than $\epsilon$. Define $P'_j = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_{j-1}, H_j', H_{j+1}, \dots, H_n)$ with $H_j' = H(t_j, h_j + \delta)$. Then we have
$$
\left| P'_j \right| = |P| + \mathcal{H}^1(\partial P \cap l_j) \cdot \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$

_Proof._ The lines $l_i$ for all index $i \neq j$ divide the plane into open polygons $R_1, R_2, \dots, R_N$ with $N \leq 2^{n-1}$. Fix an arbitrary region $R_k$. We will show ^eqn-rk
$$
\left| P_j' \cap R_k \right| = |P \cap R_k| + \mathcal{H}^1( \partial P \cap l_j \cap R_k) \cdot \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$
for any real value $\delta$ with absolute value less than a positive constant $\epsilon_{k} = \epsilon_{k}(P, j, R_k) > 0$. Once [[#^eqn-rk]] is shown, we can take $\epsilon$ to be the minimum of $\epsilon_{k}$ over all $k$ and sum [[#^eqn-rk]] over all $k$ to complete the proof.

Take an arbitrary point $p \in R_k$. Since $p \in R_k$, the predicate $p \in H_i$ for all $i \neq j$ is either $\textsf{true}$ or $\textsf{false}$ no matter which $p$ in $R_k$ we take. Write
$$
\mathcal{G}(Q) :=  \mathcal{E}_P(p \in H_1, \dots, p \in H_{j-1}, Q, p \in H_{j+1}, \dots, p \in H_n)
$$
for an arbitrary predicate $Q$. Then $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is equal to one of $\textsf{true}$, $\textsf{false}$, $Q$, or $\lnot Q$ (not $Q$). Note that $p \in P \cap R_k$ is equivalent to $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j)$ and $p \in P_j' \cap R_k$ is equivalent to $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j')$.

If $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $\textsf{true}$, then $R_k$ is in both $P$ and $P_j'$. Consequently $\partial P \cap R_k$ is empty and [[#^eqn-rk]] holds. Similarly, if $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is false, then $R_k$ is disjoint from both $P$ and $P_j'$. Consequently $\partial P \cap R_k$ is empty and [[#^eqn-rk]] holds.

If $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $Q$, then now we have $P \cap R_k = H_j \cap R_k$ and $P_j' \cap R_k = H_j' \cap R_k$. Use [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^lem-nef-polygon-half-plane]] to get
$$
|H_j' \cap R_k| = |H_j \cap R_k| + \mathcal{H}^1(l_j \cap R_k) \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$
Observe $l_j \cap R_k \subseteq \partial P$. For any point $q \in l_j \cap R_k$, a point in the neighborhood of $q$ is always in $R_k$ and outside $H_j$, and another always in $R_k$ and inside $H_j$. Now $\partial P \cap l_j \cap R_k = l_j \cap R_k$ and [[#^eqn-rk]] holds.

If $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $\lnot Q$, then $P \cap R_k = R_k \setminus H_j$. But then $P \cap R_k$ is closed inside $R_k$. So if $l_j \cap R_k$ is nonempty, then $R_k \setminus H_j$ cannot be closed inside $R_k$ so we get contradiction. And we get that $l_j \cap R_k$ is empty. Use [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^lem-nef-polygon-half-plane]] to get $|H_j' \cap R_k| = |H_j \cap R_k| + O(\delta^2)$ and subtract this by $|R_k|$ to get the conclusion. □

Now we assemble [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]] to prove the main [[#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] on balancing.

_Proof._ (of [[#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]]) For every $1 \leq j \leq n$, define $P_j'$ as in [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]], taking $\epsilon$ smaller than the values suggested by [[a. Angle hypothesis/04. General balancedness#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]]. The idea is to compare $\sum_{j=1}^n (|P_j'| - |P|)$ with $|P'| - |P|$. We measure how each point $p \in \mathbb{R}^2$ is counted. Define $J_p$ as the set of indices $j$ where the predicates $p \in H_j$ and $p \in H_j'$ are both true or false. Define $S_0, S_1, S_{\geq 2}$ as the set of points $p$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ such that $|J_p|$ is 0, 1, or $\geq 2$ respectively. Now the sets $S_0$, $S_1$, $S_{\geq 2}$ partition $\mathbb{R}^2$.

If $p \in S_2$, then $p$ should be in some parallelogram. So $S_2$ is contained in the union of parallelograms. Now $|S_{\geq 2}| = O(\delta^2)$.

For any $p \in S_1$, let $j$ be the only index where $p \in H_j$ and $p \in H_j'$ differ. So for all $i \neq j$, $p \in H_i$ if and only if $p \in H_i'$. So $p \in P$ if and only if $p \in P_i'$ for all $i \neq j$. Similarly, $p \in P_j'$ if and only if $p \in P'$. So the contributions even out.

For any $p \in S_0$, basically $p \in P$ if and only if $p \in P_j'$ if and only if $p \in P'$. So the contributions even out.

Now we have
$$
|P'| - |P| = \sum_{j=1}^n (|P_j'| - |P|) + O(\delta^2) = \sum_{i=1}^n \mathcal{H}^1(\partial P \cap l_i ) \cdot \delta_i + O(\delta^2).
$$
□