We fully state the main [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity]] of this paper. Recall that a _balanced maximum cap_ $K$ is the cap of a _balanced maximum sofa_ $S$ with rotation angle $\pi/2$ attaining the maximum area $\alpha_{\max}$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^thm-limiting-maximum-sofa]]).

> __Definition [injectivity-condition].__ Say that a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfies the _injectivity condition_ if the followings are true. ^def-injectivity-condition
> 
> 1. For any $t \in [0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$ we have $\sigma_K(t) = 0$.
> 2. The inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is continuously differentiable.
> 3. For all $t \in (0, \pi/2)$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) \cdot u_t < 0$ and $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) \cdot v_t > 0$.

> __Theorem [injectivity].__ Any balanced maximum cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfies the injectivity condition. ^thm-injectivity

We note that the cap of Gerver's sofa $G$ also satisfies the injectivity condition, although we are yet to prove that its cap $K$ is a _maximum_ cap, that is, $G$ attains the maximum area.

> __Theorem [injectivity-gerver].__ The cap $K := \mathcal{C}(G)$ of Gerver's sofa satisfies the injectivity condition. ^thm-injectivity-gerver

> __Remark [injectivity-gerver].__ We do not give an explicit proof of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity-gerver]], which basically boils down to lengthy and technical computations. Note, however, that a weaker version of (3) is _assumed_ by Romik in [@romik] to derive Gerver's sofa $G$.  ^rem-injectivity-gerver

Note that (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]] implies that $A_K^+(t) = A_K^-(t)$ and $f_K^+(t) = f_K^-(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2)$. We will denote the common value as $A_K(t)$ and $f_K(t)$ respectively.

> __Proposition [cap-nondegenerate].__ Assume that a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfies (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]]. That is, we have $\sigma_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = 0$ for any $t \in [0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$. Then the followings are true. ^pro-cap-nondegenerate
> 
> 1. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, we have $A_K^+(t) = A_K^-(t)$ and $f_K^+(t) = f_K^-(t)$.
> 2. For any $t \in (0, \pi/2]$, we have $C_K^+(t) = C_K^-(t)$ and $g_K^+(t) = g_K^-(t)$.

_Proof._ By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-surface-area-measure-side-length]]. □

> __Definition [cap-nondegenerate].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfies (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]], which includes all balanced maximum caps by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^cor-cap-nondegenerate]], define $A_K, C_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and $f_K, g_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as below. ^def-cap-nondegenerate
> 
> - For any $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, denote the common values in (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^pro-cap-nondegenerate]] as $A_K(t) := A_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $f_K(t) = f_K^{\pm}(t)$.
> - Also, define $A_K(\pi/2) := A_K^-(\pi/2)$ and $f_K(\pi/2) := f_K^-(\pi/2)$.
> - For any $t \in (0, \pi/2]$, denote the common values in (2) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^pro-cap-nondegenerate]] as $C_K(t) := C_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $g_K(t) = g_K^{\pm}(t)$.
> - Also, define $C_K(0) := C_K^+(0)$ and $g_K(0) := g_K^+(0)$.

> __Proposition [cap-nondegenerate-continuity].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfying the condition (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]], the followings are true. ^pro-cap-nondegenerate-continuity
> 
> 1. The functions $A_K, C_K, f_K, g_K$ in [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^def-cap-nondegenerate]] are continuous on $[0, \pi/2]$.
> 2. The corners $\mathbf{x}_K, \mathbf{y}_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ are continously differentiable, and we have $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) = -(f_K(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K(t) - 1) v_t$ and $\mathbf{y}_K'(t) = -f_K(t) u_t + g_K(t) v_t$.

_Proof._ (1) is by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]. (2) is by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]]. □

Along the process of showing [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity]], we will also show that there are measurable functions $r_K, s_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}_{\geq 0}$ such that the measure $\sigma_K$ on interval $[0, \pi/2)$ and $(\pi/2, \pi]$ have density functions $r_K$ and $s_K$ respectively. We will use these notions on balanced maximum caps in the subsequent work.
