Define the _arm lengths_ $f_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ of tangent hallways of a cap $K$ as the following.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and $t \in [0, \pi/2]$ be arbitrary. Define ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length
$$
f_K^+(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - A_K^+(t) \right) \cdot v_t \qquad f_K^-(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K - A_K^-(t) \right) \cdot v_t
$$
> and
$$
g_K^+(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - C_K^+(t) \right)  \cdot u_t \qquad g_K^-(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - C_K^-(t) \right)  \cdot u_t.
$$

> __Lemma [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and $t \in [0, \pi/2]$ be arbitrary. Then we have $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^{\pm}_K(t) + f_K^{\pm}(t) v_t$ and $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = C^{\pm}_K(t) + g_K^{\pm}(t) u_t$. ^lem-cap-tangent-arm-length

_Proof._ The point $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and the vertices $A_K^{\pm}(t)$ are on the tangent line $a_K(t)$ in the direction of $v_t$. Likewise $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and $C_K^{\pm}(t)$ are on the tangent line $c_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_t$. □

It turns out that the condition (3) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]] is equivalent to stating that $f_K^{\pm}(t) > 1$ and $g_K^{\pm}(t) > 1$, because the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K$ can be expressed in terms of the arm lengths of $K$ ([[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]]).

> __Definition [left-right-derivative].__ For any function $f$ from interval $I \subseteq \mathbb{R}$ to $\mathbb{R}$, denote its left (resp. right) derivative at $t \in I$ as $\partial^+ f$ (resp. $\partial^- f$). ^def-left-right-derivative

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, the right derivatives of the outer corner $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ exists for all $0 \leq t < \pi/2$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^+ \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -f_K^+(t) u_t + g_K^+(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(f_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K^+(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, the left derivatives of $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \pi/2$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^- \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -f_K^-(t) u_t + g_K^-(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(f_K^-(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K^-(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$ in the arm lengths $f_K^{\pm}(t), g_K^{\pm}(t)$, vertices $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and the tangent line $a_K(t)$. Take any $0 \leq t < \pi/2$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We evaluate $\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{y}(s) - \mathbf{y}(t)) / \delta$. Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$ and $A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_s$. Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t).
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with $\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$, then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. We get the following limit as $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]).
$$ \partial^+ (\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = - f^+(t)$$
A similar argument can be applied to show $\partial^+ (\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot v_t) = g^+(t)$ and thus the first equation of the theorem. The right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ comes from $\mathbf{x}_K(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - u_t - v_t$. A symmetric argument calculates the left derivative of $\mathbf{y}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K$. □

> __Remark [inner-corner-deriv].__ The resulting equation $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(f_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K^+(t) - 1) v_t$ in [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] can be interpreted intuitively as the following. Imagine moving the hallway $L_K(t)$ slightly by incrementing $t$ by small $\epsilon > 0$. The wall $c_K(t)$ rotates with the pivot $C_K^+(t)$ as center. So the $v_t$ component $g_K^+(t) - 1$ of the derivative $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is the distance from the pivot $C_K^+(t)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ measured in the direction of $u_t$. The $u_t$ component $-(f_K^+(t) - 1)$ of $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ can be interpreted similarly as the distance from the pivot $A^+_K(t)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ along the direction $v_t$. ^rem-inner-corner-deriv

We prove some lemmas that compute the arm lengths.

> __Lemma [arm-length-convolution].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and $t \in [0, \pi/2]$, we have ^lem-arm-length-convolution
$$
g_K^+(t) = \int_{u \in (t, t + \pi/2]} \sin(u - t) \, \sigma_K(du).
$$

_Proof._ Since $\mathbf{y}_K(t), A_K^+(t) \in l_K(t)$, we have
$$
g_K^+(t) = (A_K^+(t) - C_K^+(t)) \cdot u_t = - u_t \cdot (v_K^+(t + \pi/2) - v_K^+(t)).
$$
Parametrize the interval $(t, t + \pi/2]$ by $s$, then we have $\mathrm{d} v_K^+(s) = v_{s} \sigma_K$ by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] so
$$
\begin{align*}
g_K^+(t) & = - u_t \cdot (v_K^+(t + \pi/2) - v_K^+(t)) \\
& = - u_t \cdot \int_{s \in (t, t + \pi/2]} d v_K^+(t') = - u_t \cdot \int_{s \in (t, t + \pi/2]} v_{s} \, \sigma_K(ds) \\
& = \int_{s \in (t, t + \pi/2]} (- u_t \cdot v_{s}) \, \sigma_K(ds) \\
& = \int_{s \in (t, t + \pi/2]} \sin(s - t) \, \sigma_K(d s)
\end{align*}
$$
is proved. □

We calculate the differentiation of arm length $f_K^+(t)$.

> __Theorem [arm-length-differentiation].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}$, the function $f^+_K(t)$ of $t \in (0, \pi/2]$ is right-differentiable and of bounded variation. Moreover, its Lebesgue--Stieltjes measure is ^thm-arm-length-differentiation
$$
\mathrm{d} f_K^+(t) = g_K^+(t)\, \mathrm{d} t - \sigma_K
$$
> where $f_K^+(t), g_K^+(t), t$ are functions of $t \in (0, \pi/2]$, so that $\mathrm{d} t$ denotes the usual Borel measure of $(0, \pi/2]$.

_Proof._ First evaluate
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathrm{d} h_K(t) & = \mathrm{d} (v_K^+(t) \cdot u_t) = u_t \cdot \mathrm{d} v_K^+(t) + v_K^+(t) \cdot \mathrm{d} u_t \\
& = u_t \cdot (v_t \sigma_K) + (v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t) \mathrm{d} t = (v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t) \mathrm{d} t
\end{align*}
$$
for all $t \in S^1$ using [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue--Stieltjes Measure#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]] and [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. Now take the Lebesgue--Stieltjes measure of
$$
f_K^+(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - A_K^+(t) \right) \cdot v_t = h_K(\pi/2 + t) - v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t
$$
for all $t \in (0, \pi/2]$ using [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue--Stieltjes Measure#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]] and [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] to get
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathrm{d} f_K^+(t) & = \mathrm{d} h_K(\pi/2 + t) - v_t \cdot \mathrm{d} v_K^+(t) - v_K^+(t) \cdot \mathrm{d} v_t \\
& = (v_K^+(\pi/2 + t) \cdot v_{\pi/2 + t}) \mathrm{d} t - v_t \cdot (v_t \sigma_K) + v_K^+(t) \cdot u_t \mathrm{d} t \\
& = - \sigma_K + (- v_K^+(\pi/2 + t) \cdot u_t + h_K(t)) \mathrm{d} t
= g_K(t) \mathrm{d} t - \sigma_K
\end{align*}
$$
which completes the proof. □