In this [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps]], we prove [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^lem-balanced-ineq-limit]] that bounds the surface area measure of balanced maximum cap $K$ by the arm lengths of $K$. The main step is to take the limit of the [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-balanced-discrete-ineq]] on maximum polygon caps.

> __Lemma [arm-length-discrete-bound].__ Let $K$ be any balanced polygon cap with $n$ steps of step size $\delta := (\pi/2) / n$ and angle set $\Theta := \Theta_n$. For any angle $t \in \left\{ 0 \right\} \cup \Theta$ and open interval $I := (t,t + \delta)$, the followings are true. ^lem-arm-length-discrete-bound
> 
> 1. For any $t' \in I$, we have $g_K^+(t) \geq g_K^{+}(t') = g_K^-(t') \geq g_K^-(t + \delta)$.
> 2. Moreover, the gap $g_K^+(t) - g_K^-(t + \delta)$ between the upper and the lower bound is at most $5 \delta$.

_Proof._ Since the angles $t$ and $t + \delta$ are two adjacent angles of the finite set $\left\{ 0, \pi/2 \right\} \cup \Theta$, we have
$$
A_K^+(t) = A_K^-(t + \delta) = A_K^+(t') = A_K^-(t')
$$
for all $t' \in I$. Call the common point $A$. Similarly, we have
$$
C_K^+(t) = C_K^-(t + \delta) = C_K^{+}(t') = C_K^{-}(t')
$$
for all $t' \in I$. Call the common point $C$. Take any $t' \in \overline{I} = [t, t + \delta]$. The lines $a_K(t')$ and $c_K(t')$ meet orthogonally at the point $\mathbf{y}_K(t')$. The line $a_K(t')$ passes through $A$, and the line $c_K(t')$ passes through $C$. So by elementary geometry, the trajectory of the point $\mathbf{y}_K(t')$ over all $t' \in \overline{I}$ forms an arc $\Delta$ of the circle $\Gamma$ with the diameter of length $\leq 5$ connecting $A$ and $C$. As the lines $a_K(t)$ and $a_K(t + \delta)$ makes an angle of $\delta$ at point $A$, the arc $\Delta$ have central angle $2\delta$ in $\Gamma$. The value $g_K^+(t)$ is the distance from $C$ to $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$, and $g_K^-(t + \delta)$ is the distance from $C$ to $\mathbf{y}_K(t + \delta)$. So (1) holds. The arc $\Delta$ connecting $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ to $\mathbf{y}_K(t + \delta)$ has length at most $5\delta$. So (2) holds by triangle inequality. □

> __Lemma [leg-convergence].__ Assume that a sequence of polygon caps $K_n$ converge to a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ in Hausdorff distance as $n \to \infty$. Then we have ^lem-leg-convergence
$$
\lim_{ n \to \infty } \int_0^{\pi/2} \left| g_{K_n}^+(t) - g_K^+(t) \right| \, dt = 0. 
$$

_Proof._ The function $g_{K_n}^+$ is nonnegative and bounded from above by the diameter of $K_n$. The diameter of $K_n$ converges to the diameter of $K$. So by dominated convergence theorem, it suffices to show that for almost every $t \in (0, \pi/2)$, we have $g_{K_n}^+(t) \to g_K^+(t)$ as $n \to \infty$. Note that the set of all $t \in (0, \pi/2)$ such that either $\sigma_{K}\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) > 0$ or $\sigma_{K_n}\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) > 0$ for some $n$ is countable; otherwise, it contradicts that the measures $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ are finite. So we can exclude such measure zero case and assume that $\sigma_{K}\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = 0$ and $\sigma_{K_n}\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = 0$ for all $n \geq 1$. By our choice of $t$, we have $g_{K_n}^-(t) = g_{K_n}^+(t)$ and $g_K^-(t) = g_K^+(t)$. We now prove the goal $g_{K_n}^+(t) \to g_K^+(t)$ as $n \to \infty$.

The function $s : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}$, defined as $s(u) := \sin(u - t)$ for $u \in (t, t + \pi/2]$ and zero otherwise, is upper semicontinuous. By [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^lem-arm-length-convolution]], the value $g_{K_n}^+(t)$ (resp. $g_K^+(t)$) is the integral of $s$ over $\sigma_{K_n}$ (resp. $\sigma_K$). Because the measure $\sigma_{K_n}$ converges weakly to $\sigma_K$ as $n \to \infty$ ([[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-surface-area-weak-convergence]]), by the Portmanteau theorem on finite measures we have $\limsup_{ n } g_{K_n}^+(t) \leq g_K^+(t)$.

Similarly, define $s^- : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}$ as $s(u) := \sin(u - t)$ for $u \in (t, t + \pi/2)$ and zero otherwise. Then $s^-$ is lower semicontinuous. By [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^lem-arm-length-convolution]] and [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-surface-area-measure-side-length]], the value $g_{K_n}^-(t)$ (resp. $g_K^-(t)$) is the integral of $s^-$ over $\sigma_{K_n}$ (resp. $\sigma_K$). Now by the Portmanteau theorem on finite measures we have $\liminf_{ n } g_{K_n}^-(t) \geq g_K^-(t)$. Because $g_{K_n}^-(t) = g_{K_n}^+(t)$ and $g_K^-(t) = g_K^+(t)$, the proof is complete. □

We now take the limit of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-balanced-discrete-ineq]] to show a corresponding inequality for the balanced maximum cup $K$. 

> __Lemma [balanced-ineq-limit].__ Let $K$ be any balanced maximum cap. Then on the interval $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, we have $\sigma_K \leq k_0(g_K^+(t)) \, \mathrm{d} t$. ^lem-balanced-ineq-limit

_Proof._ Let $\mu_K$ be the measure $k_0(g_K^+(t)) \, \mathrm{d} t$ on $t \in [0, \pi/2)$. It suffices to show ^eqn-to-show-interval
$$
\sigma_K(I) \leq \mu_K(I) = \int_{t \in I} k_0(g_K^+(t)) \, d t
$$
for any open interval $I = (a, b) \subseteq [0, \pi/2)$ and half-open interval $I = [0, b) \subseteq [0, \pi/2)$. Then for any set $U$ open in the subspace topology of $[0, \pi/2)$ is a countable union of such intervals, so we have $\sigma_K(U) \leq \int_{t \in U} k_0(g_K^+(t))\,dt$. Since $k_0(g_K^+(t)) \mathrm{d} t$ is outer regular, by letting $U$ to converge to arbitrary Borel subset of $[0, \pi/2)$ from above, we have $\sigma_K \leq k_0(g_K^+(t)) \, \mathrm{d} t$ on $[0,\pi/2)$.

By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^def-balanced-maximum-cap]], $K$ is the limit of balanced polygon caps $K_n$ of $n$ steps with step size $\delta = (\pi/2) / n$ as $n \to \infty$, where $n = n_1, n_2, \dots$ takes values in a strictly increasing powers of two. Let $\Theta := \bigcup_n \Theta_n$ be the union of angle sets $\Theta_n$ for powers of two $n = n_1, n_2, \dots$, so that $\Theta$ is the set of dyadic angles in $(0, \pi/2)$. As $\Theta$ is dense in $[0, \pi/2)$, it suffices to show [[#^eqn-to-show-interval]] for $I = (a, b)$ and $I = [0, b)$ for $a, b \in \Theta$ with $a < b$ by taking limits.

Take sufficiently large $n$ so that we can assume $a, b \in \Theta_n$. For every $t \in \left\{ 0 \right\} \cup \Theta_n$, we can assume ^eqn-single-step-integral
$$
\sigma_{K_n}\left( [t, t + \delta) \right) = \sigma_{K_n} (t) \leq k_0(g_{K_n}^+(t)) \cdot \delta + O_{\delta}(\delta^2) =  \int_t^{t + \delta} k_0(g_{K_n}^+(u)) \, du + O_{\delta}(\delta^2)
$$
by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-balanced-discrete-ineq]] and [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-arm-length-discrete-bound]]. For the open interval $I := (a, b)$, sum up [[#^eqn-single-step-integral]] for all $t \in I \cap \Theta_{n}$ to get ^eqn-polygon-integral
$$
\begin{split}
\sigma_{K_n}(I) & \leq \sum_{t \in [a, b) \cap \Theta_n} \sigma_{K_n}\left( [t, t+ \delta) \right) = \sum_{t \in [a, b) \cap \Theta_n} \sigma_{K_n}\left( \left\{ t \right\}  \right) \\
& \leq \left( \sum_{t \in [a, b) \cap \Theta_n} \int_t^{t + \delta} k_0(g_{K_n}^+(u)) \, du \right)  + O_{\delta}(\delta) \\
& = \int_a^b k_0(g_{K_n}^+(u))\,du + O_{\delta}(\delta) = \mu_{K_n}(I) + O_\delta(\delta).
\end{split}
$$
Here we use $|[a, b) \cap \Theta_n| \leq |\Theta_n| - 1 = n =  O_{\delta}(1/\delta)$.

We will now take $n \to \infty$ in [[#^eqn-polygon-integral]], first at the left-hand side. As $K_n \to K$ in Hausdorff distance, $\sigma_{K_n} \to \sigma_K$ in the weak convergence of measures ([[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-surface-area-weak-convergence]]). Since $I$ is open in $S^1$, we have $\sigma_K(I) \leq \liminf_{ n } \sigma_{K_n}(I)$. Now we take $n \to \infty$ in the right-hand side. By [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-leg-convergence]] and that $k_0$ is 1-Lipschitz, we have ^eqn-mu-limit
$$
\begin{align*}
\lim_{ n } \left| \mu_{K_n}(I) - \mu_K(I) \right| & \leq \lim_{ n }  \int_{t \in I} \left| k_0(g_{K_n}^+(t)) - k_0(g_{K_n}^+(t)) \right|  \, d t \\
& \leq \lim_{ n } \int_{t \in I} \left|g_{K_n}^+(t) - g_{K_n}^+(t) \right| = 0.
\end{align*}
$$
So by taking $n \to \infty$ in [[#^eqn-polygon-integral]], we get $\sigma_K(I) \leq \mu_K(I)$ for $I = (a, b)$ as desired.

Similarly, for the interval $I := [0, b)$, set $a = 0$ and observe that [[#^eqn-polygon-integral]] still holds. Because $K_n$ and $K$ are caps, if we set $U = (-\pi/2, b)$ then we have $\sigma_{K_n}(I) = \sigma_{K_n}(U)$ and $\sigma_K(I) = \sigma_K(U)$. So we still have $\sigma_K(I) \leq \liminf_{ n } \sigma_{K_n}(I)$. We also have $\lim_{ n } \mu_{K_n}(I) = \mu_K(I)$ by following [[#^eqn-mu-limit]]. So by taking $n \to \infty$ in [[#^eqn-polygon-integral]], we have $\sigma_K(I) \leq \mu_K(I)$ for $I = [0, b)$ as desired. □

> __Corollary [cap-nondegenerate].__ Any balanced maximum cap $K$ satisfies the condition (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]]. That is, we have $\sigma_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = 0$ for any $t \in [0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$. ^cor-cap-nondegenerate

_Proof._ For $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, use [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^lem-balanced-ineq-limit]]. For $t \in (\pi/2, \pi/2]$, appeal to mirror symmetry. □

> __Proposition [cap-nondegenerate].__ Assume that a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfies (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]]. Then the followings are true. ^pro-cap-nondegenerate
> 
> 1. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, we have $A_K^+(t) = A_K^-(t)$ and $f_K^+(t) = f_K^-(t)$.
> 2. For any $t \in (0, \pi/2]$, we have $C_K^+(t) = C_K^-(t)$ and $g_K^+(t) = g_K^-(t)$.

_Proof._ By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-surface-area-measure-side-length]]. □

> __Definition [cap-nondegenerate].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfies (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]], which includes all balanced maximum caps by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^cor-cap-nondegenerate]], define $A_K, C_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and $f_K, g_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as below. ^def-cap-nondegenerate
> 
> - For any $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, denote the common values in (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^pro-cap-nondegenerate]] as $A_K(t) := A_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $f_K(t) = f_K^{\pm}(t)$.
> - Also, define $A_K(\pi/2) := A_K^-(\pi/2)$ and $f_K(\pi/2) := f_K^-(\pi/2)$.
> - For any $t \in (0, \pi/2]$, denote the common values in (2) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^pro-cap-nondegenerate]] as $C_K(t) := C_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $g_K(t) = g_K^{\pm}(t)$.
> - Also, define $C_K(0) := C_K^+(0)$ and $g_K(0) := g_K^+(0)$.

> __Proposition [cap-nondegenerate-continuity].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ satisfying the condition (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]], the followings are true. ^pro-cap-nondegenerate-continuity
> 
> 1. The functions $A_K, C_K, f_K, g_K$ in [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^def-cap-nondegenerate]] are continuous on $[0, \pi/2]$.
> 2. The corners $\mathbf{x}_K, \mathbf{y}_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ are continously differentiable, and we have $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) = -(f_K(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K(t) - 1) v_t$ and $\mathbf{y}_K'(t) = -f_K(t) u_t + g_K(t) v_t$.

> __Theorem [leg-length-bounds].__ Let $K$ be a balanced maximum cap. Then $f_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$ is absolutely continuous, and we have $f'_K(t) \geq m_0(g_K(t))$ for almost every $t \in [0, \pi/2]$ except measure zero set. ^thm-leg-length-bounds

_Proof._ By [[#^lem-balanced-ineq-limit]] and the Radon-Nikodym theorem, we have $\sigma_K = r_K(t) \mathrm{d} t$ on the domain $t \in [0, \pi/2)$ for some measurable function $r_K : [0, \pi/2) \to \mathbb{R}_{\geq 0}$ that is unique up to null set. In particular, we can assume $r_K(t) \leq k_0(g_K(t))$ on $t \in [0, \pi/2)$. Now by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^thm-arm-length-differentiation]] we have
$$
\mathrm{d} f_K(t) = \left( g_K(t) - r_K(t) \right) \mathrm{d} t
$$
on $t \in (0, \pi/2)$ so $f_K(t)$ is absolutely continuous on $t \in [0, \pi/2]$ by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue--Stieltjes Measure#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-abs-cont]]. Moreover,
$$
\mathrm{d} f_K(t) = \left( g_K(t) - r_K(t) \right) \mathrm{d} t \geq (g_K(t) - k_0(g_K(t)) \mathrm{d} t = m_0(g_K(t)) \mathrm{d} t
$$
so  □