Using [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^thm-leg-length-bounds]], we will iteratively obtain better lower bounds of $f_K$ and $g_K$ for balanced maximum caps $K$, to show the lower bound $f_K(t), g_K(t) > 1$ of arm lengths in [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/20. Bounding Arm Lengths#^thm-lower-bound-one]]. Then 

> __Definition [integral-operator].__ Definte the operator $\mathcal{F}$ mapping any continuous function $f : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$, to another continuous function $\mathcal{F} f : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$ as ^def-integral-operator
$$
\mathcal{F} f(x) = 1 + \int_0^x m_0(f(\pi/2 - u))\,du.
$$

> __Definition [lower-bound-sequence].__ Define the continuous functions $f_n : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$ for all integers $n \geq 0$ as the following. ^def-lower-bound-sequence
> 
> 1. $f_0(x) := 0$ for all $x \in [0, \pi/2]$.
> 2. $f_{n+1}(x) := \max\left( f_n(x), \mathcal{F} f_n(x) \right)$ for all $x \in [0, \pi/2]$.

> __Lemma [lower-bound-sequence].__ The following holds for any $n \geq 0$. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ be any balanced maximum cap. Then we have $f_K(t) \geq f_n(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2)$ and $g_K(t) \geq f_n(\pi/2 - t)$ for all $t \in (0, \pi/2]$. ^lem-lower-bound-sequence

_Proof._ Induct on $n$. The base case $n \geq 0$ holds trivially. Now assume the inductive hypothesis that for any balanced maximum cap $K'$, we have $f_{K'}(t) \geq f_n(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2)$ and $g_{K'}(t) \geq f_n(\pi/2 - t)$ for all $t \in (0, \pi/2]$.

Fix an arbitrary balanced maximum cap $K$. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2)$, we have
$$
f_K(t) = f_K(0) + \int_0^t f_K'(u) \,du \geq f_K(0) + \int_0^t m_0(g_K(u)) \,du \geq f_K(0) + \int_0^t m_0(f_K(\pi/2 - u)) \,du 
$$
by the inductive hypothesis on $K' := K$ and [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^thm-leg-length-bounds]]. This combined with the inductive hypothesis $f_{K}(t) \geq f_n(t)$ on $K' := K$ implies that $f_K(t) \geq f_{n+1}(t)$.

Next, apply the inductive hypothesis on the mirror image $K' := K^{\mathrm{op}}$. Then we also have $f_{K^\mathrm{\mathrm{op}}}(t) \geq f_{n+1}(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2)$. This, by mirror symmetry, is equivalent to the other inequality $g_K(t) \geq f_{n+1}(\pi/2 - t)$ for all $t \in (0, \pi/2]$. □

> __Definition [lower-bound-j].__ For any constant $c \in [0, 1]$, define the function $j_c : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$ as $j_c(x) := \max(1 - x, c)$. ^def-lower-bound-j

> __Lemma [lower-bound-j-iter].__ Define the constant $d_0 := 1/12$. Then for any $c \in [0, 2/3]$, we have $\mathcal{F} j_c(x) \geq j_{c + d_0}(x)$ on $x \in [0, \pi/2]$. ^lem-lower-bound-j-iter

_Proof._ Because $m_0$ is bounded from below by $-1$, it is always guaranteed that $\mathcal{F} j_c (x) \geq 1 - x$. So to show that $\mathcal{F} j_c(x) \geq j_{c + d_0}(x)$ on $x \in [0, 1]$, it suffices to show $\mathcal{F} j_c (x) \geq c + d_0$.

We show this by simply computing $\mathcal{F} j_c(x)$. Since the range of $j_c$ is in $[0, 1]$, we have ^eqn-jc-principal
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{F} j_c(x) & = 1 + \int_0^x m_0(j_c(\pi/2 - u)) \, du \\
& = 1 - x + \int_0^x \frac{3}{2} j_c (\pi/2 - u) \,du
\end{align*} 
$$
and it suffices to show that the value is $\geq c + d_0$.

First assume the case $x \leq \pi/2 - 1 + c$. Then $\pi/2 - u \geq \pi/2 - x \geq 1 - c$ in the integral of [[#^eqn-jc-principal]] so
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{F} j_c(x) & = 1 - x + \frac{3}{2} c x = 1 - (1 - 3/2 \cdot c)x \\
& \geq 1 - (1 - 3/2 \cdot c)(\pi/2 - 1 + c) \\
& \geq c + d_0
\end{align*}
$$
where the last inequality is obtained by minimizing the difference, is a quadratic polynomial of $c \in \mathbb{R}$, which we omit the details.

It remains to check the case $x > \pi/2 - 1 + c$. Then [[#^eqn-jc-principal]] evaluates to
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{F} j_c(x) & = 1 - x + \frac{3}{2} c (\pi/2 - 1 + c) + \int_{\pi/2 - 1 + c}^x \frac{3}{2}(1 - \pi/2 + u) \, du \\
& = 1 - x + \frac{3}{2} c (\pi/2 - 1 + c) + \frac{3}{4} \left( (x - \pi/2 + 1)^2 - c^2 \right).
\end{align*} 
$$
Minimize the quadratic polynomial over $x \in \mathbb{R}$, which we omit the details, then we have
$$
\mathcal{F} j_c (x) \geq \frac{5}{3} - \frac{\pi}{2} + \frac{3}{4} c (c + \pi - 2)
$$
where the equality holds at $x = \pi/2 - 1/3$. The lower bound is $\geq c + d_0$ by another minimization of quadratic polynomial over $c \in \mathbb{R}$. This completes the proof. □

> __Lemma [operator-monotonicity].__ For any functions $f, g : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}_{\geq 0}$ such that $f \leq g$ on $[0, \pi/2]$, we also have $\mathcal{F} f \leq \mathcal{F} g$. ^lem-operator-monotonicity

_Proof._ The function $m_0$ is monotonically increasing; now check the [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^def-integral-operator]] of $\mathcal{F}$. □

> __Lemma [lower-bound-threshold].__ We have $f_{11}(x) > 1$ on $x \in (0, 1]$. ^lem-lower-bound-threshold

_Proof._ For any integer $1 \leq m \leq 10$, we will show that $f_m \geq j_{(m - 1)/12}$. The base case $f_1 = j_0$ is done by simple computation. Assuming the inductive hypothesis $f_m \geq j_{(m-1)/12}$ for $m \leq 9$, the inductive step
$$
f_{m+1} \geq \mathcal{F} f_m \geq \mathcal{F} j_{(m-1)/12} \geq j_{m/12}
$$
can be done using [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-operator-monotonicity]] and [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-lower-bound-j-iter]]. So $f_{10} \geq j_{9/12} > 2/3$ in particular.

Because $m_0(y) > 0$ for all $y > 2/3$, we now have 
$$
f_{11}(x) \geq \mathcal{F} f_{10} (x) = 1 + \int_0^x m_0(f_{10}(\pi/2 - u)) \, du > 1
$$
for all $x \in (0, \pi/2]$. □

> __Theorem [lower-bound-one].__ For any balanced maximum cap $K$, we have $f_K(t) > 1$ on $t \in (0, \pi/2]$ and $g_K(t) > 1$ on $t \in [0, \pi/2)$. ^thm-lower-bound-one

_Proof._  □

> __Remark [lower-bound-limit].__ The lower bound $f_n$ of the arm length $f_K$ of balanced maximum cap $K$ gets better as $n \to \infty$. We only took $n=11$ in [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/10. Inequality on Maximum Polygon Caps#^lem-lower-bound-threshold]] which was sufficient for our purpose. As $n \to \infty$, it turns out that $f_n$ converges to the function $f : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$ described as the following. ^rem-lower-bound-limit
> 
> There exists unique constants $A_0 \in [0.95, 0.96]$, $B_0 \in [2.31, 2.32]$, $T_0 \in [0.50, 0.51]$ satisfying the following equations.
> 
> 1. $A_0 \cos (T/2) + B_0 \sin (T/2) = 1 + T$
> 2. $A_0 \cos ((\pi/2-T)/2) + B_0 \sin ((\pi/2-T)/2) = 2$
> 3. $- A_0 \sin T/2 + B_0 \cos T/2 = 2$
> 
> The function $f : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}$, which is the solution to $f(0) = 1$ and $f'(t) = m_0(f(\pi/2 - t))$, evaluates to the following.
> 
> 1. $f(t) = 1 + t$ for $t \in [0, T_0]$,
> 2. $f(t) = A_0 \cos(t/2) + B_0 \sin(t/2)$ for $t \in [T_0, \pi/2 - T_0]$,
> 3. $f(\pi/2-T_0)=2$ and $f'(t) = (\pi/2 - t + 1)/2$ for $t \in [\pi/2 - T_0, \pi/2]$.

_Proof._ (of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity]]) Since $K$ attains the maximum value of sofa area functional ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^thm-limiting-maximum-cap-max]]), we should have $2.2 < |G| \leq \mathcal{A}(K) \leq |K|$. So it also satisfies the condition (4) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]]. □

_Proof._ (of the main [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity]]) We check conditions (1)-(3) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]] for balanced maximum caps $K$. Condition (1) holds by [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^cor-cap-nondegenerate]]. Condition (2) holds by (2) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^pro-cap-nondegenerate-continuity]]. Finally, condition (3) holds because
$$
\mathbf{x}_K'(t) = -(f_K(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K(t) - 1) v_t
$$
by (2) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^pro-cap-nondegenerate-continuity]] and  □