_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-mamikon]]) For this proof only, let $\mathbf{x} = v_K^+$ be the alias of $v_K^+ : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. First, we verify the differential version of the theorem by the following calculation. Here $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ and the following is an equality of measures on $(t_0, t_1]$. Note that $\mathbf{y}$ is continuous by definition and $\mathbf{x}$ is [[01. Convex Bodies#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex|right-continuous]], so in particular $\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x}$ is also right-continuous, so $d(\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x})$ makes sense as a Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure.

$$
\begin{align*}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + d \left( \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + \left( d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) + \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{x} (t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = f(t) u_t \times d\left( f(t) u_t \right) = f(t) u_t \times ( u_t df(t) + f(t) v_t dt) = f(t)^2 dt
\end{align*}
$$

The first equality uses the [[02. Notations and Conventions#^cor-product-rule-differential|product rule of differentials]]. The second equality is an rearrangement using linearity (note that $d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) = - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ by antisymmetry of $\times$). As we have $d \mathbf{x}(t) = \beta(dt)v_t$ by [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]], and $\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) = f(t)v_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t)) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) = 0$ which is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalities are calculus.

When we integrate the differential formula on the interval $(t_0, t_1]$, $\mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ becomes $2I(\mathbf{y})$ by [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-curve-area-functional|definition]], $\mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t)$ becomes $2I(\mathbf{x})$ by [[02. Boundary of Convex Bodies#^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional]], and $d(\mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t))$ becomes the difference $2I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - 2I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$. So the integral matches twice the left-hand side of the claimed equality. We conclude the proof by dividing by two.

For the variant, use that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0 -, t_1}$ is the join of $e_{K}(t_0)$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$, and that $I(e_{K}(t_0)) = I(v_K^-(t_0), v_K^+(t_0))$. □

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-mamikon-tangent-line]]) Define $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{y}(t) = l_K(t) \cap l_K(t_1)$ for every $t < t_1$ and $\mathbf{y}(t_1) = v_K^-(t_1)$, then $\mathbf{y}$ is continuous by [[01. Convex Bodies#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]] and parametrizes the line segment connecting $r$ and $v_K^-(t_1)$. So $f(t)$ is integrable. Apply [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-mamikon]] to the curves $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{y}$, and use $I(\mathbf{y}) = I(r, \mathbf{y}(t_1)) = I(r, v_K^+(t_1)) - I(e_K(t_1))$ to obtain the claimed equality. □