> __Definition [cap-space-special].__ Define $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ as the subspace of $K \in \mathcal{K}$ such that the followings holds. ^def-cap-space-special
> 
> 1. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2)$ we have $\sigma_K(t) = 0$. That is, the supporting line $a_K(t)$ makes contact with $K$ at a single point.
> 2. (Analogous for above with $C$.)
> 3. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2]$, the derivative $\mathbf{x}_K'$ exists, is continuous on the compact domain, and satisfies $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) \cdot u(t) < 0$ and $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) \cdot v(t) > 0$.
> 4. We have $|K| > 2.2$.

> __Theorem [cap-space-special].__ The space $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ is a convex subspace of $\mathcal{K}$. ^thm-cap-space-special

We will construct a upper bound $\mathcal{Q}$ of $\mathcal{A}$ on $\mathcal{K}^\mathbf{i}$.

Upper bound strategy:

- IF $|K| > 2.2$, then $\mathcal{A} \leq \mathcal{Q}$.
- THERE IS some $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ such that $\mathcal{A}(K)$ attains the maximum value on $\mathcal{K}$.
- $\mathcal{Q}$ on the space $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ achieves maximum at Gerver's sofa, and for Gerver's sofa, 
- Well, by Brunn-Minkowski theorem $|(1 - \lambda)A + \lambda B| \geq |A|^{1 - \lambda} |B|^{\lambda}$, the condition $|K| \geq 2.2$ is also convex. Would be fine just defining it that way...

We use the letters $\mathrm{L}$ and $\mathrm{R}$ in superscript to denote the left and right part of the cap respectively.

> __Definition [varphi-constants].__ Define absolute constants $\varphi^{\mathrm{R}} := \varphi$ and $\varphi^{\text{L}} := \pi/2 - \varphi$, where the constant $\varphi$ comes from the derivation of Gerver's sofa. ^def-varphi-constants

For the cap $K := \mathcal{C}(G)$ of Gerver's sofa $G$, the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ draws a main 'core' part of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ at the interval $t \in [\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]$. The goal now is to find an upper bound $\mathcal{Q}$ of the sofa area $|K| - \left| \mathcal{N}_{K} \right|$ for a general cap $K \in \mathcal{K}$. We will break the cap $K$ and niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ into three parts.

> __Definition [cap-left-right].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}$, define the line $l_K^\mathrm{R} := \overline{b}_K(\varphi^\mathrm{R})$ and the half-plane $H_K^\mathrm{R} := H_K^\mathrm{b}(\varphi^\mathrm{R})$ bounded by the line $l_K^\mathrm{R}$ with normal angle $\varphi^\mathrm{R} + \pi$. Similarly, define the line $l_K^\mathrm{L} := \overline{d}_K(\varphi^\mathrm{L})$ and the half-plane $H_K^\mathrm{R} := H_K^\mathrm{d}(\varphi^\mathrm{L})$ bounded by the line $l_K^\mathrm{L}$ with normal angle $\varphi^\mathrm{L} + \pi$. ^def-cap-left-right

> __Lemma [cap-left-right-disjoint].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ be of area $|K| > 2.2$. The the sets $K \cap H_K^\mathrm{R}$ and $K \cap H_K^\textrm{L}$ are disjoint. Correspondingly, such a $K$ is a disjoint union of three parts $B_K, M_K, D_K$ from right to left, separated by the lines $l_K^\mathrm{R}$ and $l_K^\mathrm{L}$. ^lem-cap-left-right-disjoint

As $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is a subset of $K$, the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is also paritioned into three parts $\mathcal{N}(K) \cap H_K^\mathrm{R}$, $\mathcal{N}(K) \cap H_K^\textrm{L}$ and $\mathcal{N}(K) \cap M_K$. We bound the area of each part from below separately. The right and left part $\mathcal{N}(K) \cap B_K$ and $\mathcal{N}(K) \cap D_K$ are disjoint from the convex bodies defined as below.

> __Definition [left-right-regions].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}$,  Define the convex body $B_K := K \cap \bigcap_{t \in [\varphi_R, \pi/2]} H_K^\textrm{b}(t)$. Similarly, define the convex body $D_K := K \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \varphi_L]} H_K^\textrm{d}(t)$. ^def-left-right-regions

We want to show basically that the hyperplanes $H_K^\mathrm{b}$ cut out only the lower left corner of $B_K$.

> __Lemma [monotonicity-intervals].__ Fix an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$. For any $t \in (\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \pi/2]$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is outside the half-plane $H_K^\textrm{R}$. Likewise, for any $t \in [0, \varphi^\textrm{L})$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is outside the half-plane $H_K^\textrm{L}$. ^lem-monotonicity-intervals

We first approximate the left and right part of the niche by two tails.

> __Lemma [cap-left-right-tail].__ Fix an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ and $B := B_K$, we have ^lem-cap-left-right-tail
$$
\left| \mathcal{N}(K) \cap H_K^\textrm{R} \right| \geq - \mathcal{J}\left( W_K(\varphi^\textrm{R}), v_B^+(\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}) \right)  -  \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_B^{\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}, 3\pi/2} \right) 
$$
> and similarly???
$$
\left| \mathcal{N}(K) \cap H_K^\textrm{L} \right| \geq \mathcal{J}\left( Z_K(\varphi^\textrm{L}), v_D^+(\pi + \varphi^\textrm{L}) \right)  -  \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_B^{\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}, 3\pi/2} \right) 
$$

_Proof._ If $v_B^+(\varphi^\textrm{R} + \pi) = v_B^-(3\pi/2)$, then by (1) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] the curve $\mathbf{u}_B^{\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}, 3\pi/2}$, points $W_K(\varphi^\textrm{R}), v_B^+(\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R})$ degenerate to a single point, so the lower bound becomes zero. Assuming otherwise, by XX the region $R$ enclosed in the clockwise direction by $\mathbf{u}_B^{\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}, 3\pi/2}$ and the two line segments connecting $v_B^-(3\pi/2), W_K(\varphi^\textrm{R}), v_B^+(\varphi^R + \pi)$ in order is the area of the lower bound.

We have $R \subseteq H_K^\textrm{R} \cap H_+(\pi/2, 0)$.

Take any point $p \in R$. Define the half-line $r$ starting from $p$ in the direction $v_0$. Then the ray $r$ should intersect the boundary $\partial R$. In particular, it intersects at $\mathbf{u}_B^{\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}, 3\pi/2}$.

Main observation is that, the half-line $b_K(t)$ intersected with that half-plane $H_K^b(\varphi_R)$ is not different from the full line $\overline{b}_K(t)$. Another words, $Q_K^-(t) \cap H_K^b(\varphi_R) = H_K^b(\varphi_R) \setminus H_K^b($

1. The supporting line $l_B(\varphi^\mathrm{R} + \pi)$ is the line $l_K^\mathrm{R}$ and the corresponding edge $e_B(\varphi^\mathrm{R} + \pi)$ connects two points $W_K(\varphi^\mathrm{R})$ and $l_K^\mathrm{R} \cap \delta K$. (proof: shoot ray upwards
2. The edge $e_B(3\pi/2)$ of $B$ connects two points $W_K(\varphi^\mathrm{R})$ and $A_K^-(0)$. Correspondingly, for any $t \in (\varphi^\mathrm{R} + \pi, 3\pi/2)$, the hyperplane may or may not $W_K(\varphi^\mathrm{R})$ and excludes $l_K^\mathrm{R} \cap \delta K$ and $A_K^-(0)$.
3. So $H_K^\mathrm{b}(t) \cap B_K = H_K^\mathrm{b}(t) \cap H_K^\mathrm{b}(\varphi_R) \cap H_K(3\pi/2)$.

The point $\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_R)$ is strictly inside $K \setminus \delta K$. So $\overline{b}_K(\varphi_R)$ intersects at the upper boundary $\delta K$ for some point $p$. □

Then we approximate the middle part of the niche by the core traced out by $\mathbf{x}_K$ restricted to the interval $[\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]$.

> __Lemma [cap-middle-lower-estimate].__ Fix an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$. We have $|M_K| \geq \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K|_{[\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]}) + \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi^\mathrm{L}), Z_K(\varphi^\mathrm{L})) + \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi^\mathrm{R}), W_K(\varphi^\mathrm{R}))$. ^lem-cap-middle-lower-estimate

_Proof._ Omit the subscript $K$, and restrict the domain of $\mathbf{x}$ to $[\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]$ for simplification. Define $Y := \mathbb{R}^2 \setminus H_K^\mathrm{R} \setminus H_K^\mathrm{L}$ as the open cone bounded by the lines $l_K^\mathrm{R}$ and $l_K^\mathrm{L}$. By [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Upper Bound Q/05. Definition#^lem-monotonicity-intervals]] the curve $\mathbf{x}(t)$ on $t \in [\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]$ starts at $l_K^\mathrm{R}$ and ends at $l_K^\mathrm{L}$, and the middle parts $(\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L})$ are inside the open cone $Y$.

Take the horizontal line $H_L$ described by the equation $y = -h$ for sufficiently large $h > 0$, so that it is far below the trajectory of $\mathbf{x}$. We construct a closed curve $\Gamma$, consisting of the following four curves in order.

1. $\mathbf{x} : [\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}] \to \mathbb{R}^2$.
2. The line segment $s_L$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L)$ to $d \cap H_L$.
3. Follow the line segment $s_M$ from $d \cap H_L$ to $b \cap H_L$.
4. Follow the line segment $s_R$ from $b \cap H_L$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L)$.

Then $\Gamma$ is a Jordan curve since the interior of $\mathbf{x}$ is inside the open cone $Y$, and $h$ is taken so that $s_M$ is disjoint from $\mathbf{x}$. Let $G$ be the open region enclosed by the Jordan curve $\Gamma$. Similarly, let $R$ be the trapezoid formed by the vertices $z_K(\varphi_R), d \cap H_L, b \cap H_L, w_K(\varphi_R)$. 

$G \subseteq \left( \mathcal{N}(K) \cap K_M \right) \cup P$. Why? Since $\Gamma$ is inside the triangular region $T$ bounded by $b$, $d$, and $H_L$, so is $G \subseteq T$. So it suffices to check $G \setminus T \subseteq G \cap \text{region above } y=0$ is contained inside. For any $p \in G$, shoot a ray $r_p$ above. It never hits $s_M$. If it hits $s_L$, then as $s_L \cap H_0$ is the line connecting $s_R$  

Define the half-plane $H^\mathrm{o} := H_+(\pi/2, 0)$ above the $x$-axis. We have $G \cap H^\mathrm{o} \subseteq N$. Take any $p \in G \cap H^\mathrm{o}$. Make a ray $r_p$ starting from point $p$ in the direction of $v(0)$. It should hit some point on $\Gamma$. It can never be the bottom segment $s_M$. If it is $\mathbf{x}$, then as $\mathbf{x}$ is .....

□

We embed $\mathcal{K}^{\mathrm{c}}$ in a larger convex space $\mathcal{L}$ and extend $\mathcal{A}_2$ on $\mathcal{K}^{\mathrm{c}}$ to functional $\mathcal{Q}$ on $\mathcal{L}$. Unlike $\mathcal{A}_2$ on $\mathcal{K}^{\mathrm{c}}$, $\mathcal{Q}$ on $\mathcal{L}$ turns out to be quadratic and concave.

> __Definition [cap-tail-space].__ Define $\mathcal{L}$ as the space of tuples $(K, B, D)$ of convex bodies such that the followings are true. ^def-cap-tail-space
> 
> 1. $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$, $B \subseteq K$, and $D \subseteq K$.
> 2. For every $t \in [\varphi^\textrm{R}, \pi/2]$, we have $h_K(t) + h_B(\pi + t) \leq 1$. Equality holds at $t = \varphi^\textrm{R}, \pi/2$.
> 3. For every $t \in [0, \varphi^\textrm{L}]$, we have $h_K(t + \pi/2) + h_D(\pi + t) \leq 1$. Equality holds at $t = 0, \varphi^\textrm{R}$.

> __Proposition [extended-cap-space].__ The space $\mathcal{L}$ is a convex space. ^pro-extended-cap-space

_Proof._ The product $\mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K}$ of convex spaces $\mathcal{K}$ is naturally a convex space. Recall that $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ is a convex subspace of $\mathcal{K}$. That $B \subseteq K$ (resp. $D \subseteq K$) can be written as linear inequalities $h_B(t) \leq h_K(t)$ (resp. $h_D(t) \leq h_K(t)$) for all $t \in S^1$. So the condition (1) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Upper Bound Q/05. Definition#^def-cap-tail-space]] is linear. □

> __Theorem [cap-tail-extension].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$, the triple $(K, B_K, D_K)$ is in $\mathcal{L}$. ^thm-cap-tail-extension

_Proof._ As $\mathbf{b}_K \in \mathcal{U}^{\pi + \varphi_R, 3\pi/2}$ and $\mathbf{d}_K \in \mathcal{U}^{\pi, \pi + \varphi_L}$ by Def xx, it suffices to check the conditions of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Upper Bound Q/05. Definition#^def-cap-tail-space]].

Width conditions: the set $B_K^0$ is contained in $H_K^b(t)$, so holds.
Equality condition: trickier to show. As $B_K^0 \supseteq B_K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ and 

□

> __Remark [cap-tail-extension].__ Even though $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ and $\mathcal{L}$ are convex domains, the map $K \mapsto (K, B_K, D_K)$ in [[#^thm-cap-tail-extension]] is _not_ linear. Wulfe closure. ^rem-cap-tail-extension

> __Definition [upper-bound-q].__ Define the function $\mathcal{Q} : \mathcal{L} \to \mathbb{R}$ as ^def-upper-bound-q
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{Q}(K, B, D) & = |K| + \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_D^{3\pi/2, 3\pi/2 + \varphi^\textrm{L}} \right) + \mathcal{J} \left( v_D^-\left( 3\pi/2 + \varphi^\textrm{L} \right),   \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi^\textrm{L}) \right) \\
& \phantom{=} - \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{x}_K|_{[\varphi^\textrm{R}, \varphi^\textrm{L}]} \right) + \mathcal{J} \left( \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi^\textrm{R}), v_B^+\left( \pi + \varphi^\textrm{R} \right) \right)  \\
& \phantom{=} + \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_B^{\pi + \varphi^\textrm{R}, 3\pi/2} \right) .
\end{align*}
$$