\textcolor{red}{This is a draft in progress. Do not cite this yet as details can change drastically over time. DO NOT DISTRIBUTE WITHOUT PERMISSION FROM THE AUTHOR.}

The _moving sofa problem_ asks for the connected shape with the largest area $\alpha_{\text{max}}$ that can move around the right-angled corner of a hallway $L$ with unit width. It is conjectured that Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum area, but all known derivations of $S_G$ assumes without proof that a maximum-area sofa should rotate clockwise by $\pi/2$ in its full movement inside $L$. We prove this assumption as a part of a bigger project.

Along the way, we use an important theorem of Gerver stating that there exists a maximum-area moving sofa $S_{\max}$ which is the limit of polygons with balanced side lengths. We address subtle yet crucial logical gaps in his proof, restate the theorem in our terminology, and prove the theorem rigorously filling out the logical gap. 

The _moving sofa problem_ asks for the connected shape $S$ with the largest area $\alpha$ that can move around the right-angled corner of a hallway $L$ with unit width. An important idea by Gerver is that such a maximum-area shape $S$ should be seen as an intersection of hallways $L_t$, where each $L_t$ is a copy of $L$ rotated by an angle of $t \in [0, \pi/2]$ then translated. Moreover, he claimed a proof that such a shape $S$ can be sufficiently approximated by polygons, using an local optimality argument. Using this, he was able to derive a sofa $S^\mathrm{G}$ of area $2.2195\dots$, which is conjectured to attain the optimum area. In this paper, we address subtle logical gaps in his proof of 

and derived a sofa  using an important idea that a maximum-area shape $S^{\max}$ should be the intersection of hallways $L_t$ each rotated by an angle of $t \in [0, \pi/2]$ then translated at the position $\mathbf{x}(t)$. While it is conjectured that $S_G$ attains the maximum area, a major obstacle for proving the global optimality of $S_G$ is that there is no tractable formula of $\alpha = \alpha(\mathbf{x})$ in terms of the locations $\mathbf{x} : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of rotated hallways $L_t$.