Assuming the [[04. Injectivity Theorem#^thm-injectivity|injectivity theorem]], we will construct an effective upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ of the area of the maximum-area monotone sofa $\mathcal{M}(K)$ with cap $K$.

> __Definition [a1].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the value $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - I(\mathbf{x}_K)$. Here, note that $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is the path of the inner corner of the rotating hallway $L_{K}(t)$. As the path is both left and right [[03. Space of Caps#^def-inner-corner-deriv|differentiable]], it is absolutely continuous and the value $I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is well-defined. ^def-a1

> __Theorem [a1-is-upper-bound].__ For any maximum monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ satisfying the conditions of the [[00. Introduction#^thm-injectivity|injectivity theorem]], we have $|S| \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K)$. That is, $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area of sofa $S$. ^thm-a1-is-upper-bound

_Proof._ We have $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ as $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$. So it is sufficient to show that $I(\mathbf{x}_K) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. We construct a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ consisting of the following paths.

- The line segment $s_R$ from the point $(0, 0)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$
- The path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$
- The line segment $s_L$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega)$ to the point $(0, 0)$.

First observe that the line segments $s_L$ and $s_R$ are contained in the sides $l(\omega, 0) \cap P_\omega$ and $l(\pi/2, 0) \cap P_\omega$ of $P_\omega$ respectively. Each path is injective, and so the joined path $\Gamma$ formed by joining all the three paths is a Jordan curve by [[00. Introduction#^thm-injectivity]]. So by [[02. Curves#^thm-jordan-curve]], $\Gamma$ divides the plane into an unbounded region and a bounded region. Let $\mathcal{N}_0$ be the bounded open region. 

We observe that $\Gamma$ is oriented counterclockwise. There could be many ways to show this, but one way is to modify the path $\Gamma$ slightly. Take $\epsilon > 0$ sufficiently small so that the circle centered at the origin of radius $\epsilon$ meets the line segments $s_L$ and $s_R$ at points $p_L$ and $p_R$ in their interior. Replace the parts of $\Gamma$ which are line segments connecting $p_L$ and $p_R$ to the origin, to a counterclockwise circular arc from $s_L$ to $s_R$ centered at the origin. Call the new curve $\Gamma'$ and observe by definition that $\Gamma'$ is a Jordan curve. Then as there is a homotopy between the paths $\Gamma$ and $\Gamma'$ the orientation of $\Gamma$ and $\Gamma'$ are the same. The origin is in the interior of the region bounded by $\Gamma$. Consider the ray $r$ downwards starting from the origin. Then the curve $\Gamma'$ crosses $r$ only once, and it is trasversal from left to right. So $\Gamma'$ is oriented counterclockwise, and so is $\Gamma$.

As $\Gamma$ is oriented clockwise, we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = I(\Gamma)$, and as $I(\Gamma) = I(s_R) + I(\mathbf{x}_K) + I(s_L) = I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = I(\mathbf{x}_K)$.

Next we show $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ which closes the goal as $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| \leq \left| \mathcal{N}(K) \right|$. Take any $p \in \mathcal{N}_0$. As $\Gamma$ is inside $P_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq P_\omega$ and so $p \in P_\omega$ as well. Then if we think of the ray $r = R_p(\pi/2)$ starting from $p$ upwards, then it should cross some point in the path $\Gamma$. As $p$ is in $P_\omega$ and $p$ itself is not in $\Gamma$, we can show that the intersection point of $r$ and $\Gamma$ should be in the path $\mathbf{x}_K$. As some inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the hallway $L_K(t)$ is on the ray $r$, and the set $Q^-_K(t)$ is closed in the downwards direction, the point $p$ should be in $P_\omega \cap Q^-_K(t)$ and so in $\mathcal{N}(K)$. This shows $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ and we're done. □

> __Remark [a1-is-upper-bound].__ The proof of [[#^thm-a1-is-upper-bound]] also heavily depends on the fact that the set $Q^-_K(t)$ carved out by the hallway is closed in the downwards direction. That is, it relies heavily on the fact that the hallway is rotating by 90 degrees. ^rem-a1-is-upper-bound

We did _not_ show that $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is the upper bound of every monotone sofa $\mathcal{M}(K)$. We only showed that for a certain maximum monotone sofa $\mathcal{M}(K_{max})$, it happens that $\left| \mathcal{M}(K_{max}) \right| \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K_{max})$. However, $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is defined for any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. So if we have the maximum $M$ of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ over all $K$, then $\left| \mathcal{M}(K_{max}) \right| \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K_{max}) \leq M$ so $M$ is also an effective upper bound of the area of maximum sofa.

This illusts the main idea of our proof. The area $\mathcal{A}(K)$ of any monotone sofa $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is difficult to understand. So we instead work on an upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ of the area $\mathcal{A}(K)$. In doing so, we only need to ensure that $\mathcal{A} \leq \mathcal{A}_1$ for the maximizer $K_m$. That is, (i) we can exploit any property of a maximizer $K = K_m$ to construct a new upper bound, and (ii) new upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ only needs to be greater than $\mathcal{A}$ at the point $K = K_m$. Once done so, we unlock an extra property of the maximizer $K_m$ that $\mathcal{A}_1(K_m)$ has to be at least the value of $\mathcal{A}(K_m)$. As $\mathcal{A}_1$ is well-behaved, the property $\mathcal{A}_1(K) \geq \mathcal{A}(K_m)$ is a useful property. Using this property, we prove further properties of the maximizer $K_m$ and construct finer and finer upper bounds of $\mathcal{A}(K)$.

We present a useful formula to work with $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$.

> __Definition [j].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ define the set $J_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. ^def-j

> __Theorem [a1-formula].__ The following equation holds. ^thm-a1-formula
> $$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{J_\omega} p_K(t) \beta_K(dt) - 
\frac{1}{2} \int_{[0, \omega]} \mathbf{x}_K(t) \times \mathbf{v}_K(t) dt
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ This is a combination of [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]] and [[02. Curves#^def-curve-area-functional]] applied to the definition of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$. □

We have [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-cap-mixin|observed]] that the space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ is a convex space. That is, it is closed under convex combination $K = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ of arbitrary $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. We define vocabularies to talk about linear and quadratic functionals on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

> __Definition [convex-linear].__ Let $V$ be a vector space and $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to V$ be a map. If for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and $K = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$ we have $f(K) = (1-\lambda)f(K_1) + \lambda f(K_2)$, then call $f$ _convex-linear_. If $V=\mathbb{R}$ call such $f$ a _linear functional_ on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^def-convex-linear

> __Theorem [convex-linear].__ The vertices $A^+_K, A^-_K, C^+_K, C^-_K$, arm length $g_K$ and $h_K$, inner and outer corners $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$, its derivative $\mathbf{v}_K$ are all convex-linear with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^thm-convex-linear

_Proof._ This is a combination of [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]] and the definitions of each object. □

> __Definition [quadratic-functional].__ A function $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ is a _quadratic functional_ on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ if, for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and $K = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the value $f(K)$ is a quadratic polynomial with respect to $\lambda$. ^def-quadratic-functional

> __Lemma [quadratic-functional].__ If $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to V$ and $g : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to W$ are convex-linear maps and $* : V \times W \to \mathbb{R}$ is a bilinear form, then $f(K) * g(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^lem-quadratic-functional

_Proof._ Let $K = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$, then
$$
\begin{align}
f(K) * g(K) & = ((1-\lambda) f(K_1) + \lambda f(K_2)) * ((1-\lambda) g(K_1) + \lambda g(K_2)) \\
& = (f(K_1) + \lambda (f(K_2)-f(K_1))) * ( g(K_1) + \lambda (g(K_2)-g(K_1)))  \\
& = f(K_1) * g(K_1) + \lambda \left( \left( f(K_2) - f(K_1) \right) * g(K_1) + f(K_1) * \left( g(K_2) - g(K_1) \right) \right)  \\
& + \lambda^2 (f(K_2)-f(K_1)) * (g(K_2)-g(K_1))
\end{align}
$$
so it is a quadratic polynomial of $\lambda$. □

Our upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a quadratic functional.

> __Corollary [a1-quadratic].__ $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^cor-a1-quadratic

_Proof._ Use [[#^thm-convex-linear]] and [[#^lem-quadratic-functional]] on the equation in [[#^thm-a1-formula]]. Note that for a function $f$ and measure $\mu$, the value $\int f \,d \mu$ is a bilinear form of $f$ and $\mu$. □