Next, we show that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a concave function.

> __Definition [positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional].__ A quadratic functional $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ is _positive semidefinite_ (resp. _negative semidefinite_) if, for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and $K = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the quadratic polynomial $f(K)$ of $\lambda$ has nonnegative (resp. nonpositive) quadratic coefficient. ^def-positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional

> __Lemma [negative-semidefinite].__ The followings are true. ^lem-negative-semidefinite
> 
> - If $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to V$ is a convex-linear map to an inner product space $V$, then the map $v \mapsto - \langle f(v), f(v) \rangle_V$ is a negative semidefinite quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.
> - Adding a negative semidefinite functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ with another convex-linear functional or negative semidefinite functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ always gives a negative semidefinite functional.

_Proof._ For the first item, use the equation in the proof of [[01. Construction of A1#^lem-quadratic-functional]]. □

Note that a negative semidefinite quadratic functional is concave. Here, we show that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a negative semidefinite by using [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-mamikon|Mamikon's theorem]] to express $\mathcal{A}_1$ in negative sum-of-squares.

> __Theorem [a1-mamikon].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we can assign measurable $\tau_K : [\omega, \pi/2 + \omega] \to \mathbb{R}$ which is convex-linear in terms of $K$, and some convex-linear $l_K \in \mathbb{R}$ such that the followings hold. ^thm-a1-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = - \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega h^+_K(t)^2 \, dt -  \frac{1}{2} \int_{\omega}^{\pi/2 + \omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt + l_K
$$

_Proof._ If $\omega = \pi/2$ then $p_\omega$ is undefined, so let $p_\omega = A^+_K(\pi/2) = C^+_K(0)$ in this case. Define the path $\mathbf{b}_1$ from $A_K^-(0)$ to $p_\omega$ along the upper boundary $\delta K$. Define the path $\mathbf{b}_2$ from $p_\omega$ to $C_K^+(\omega)$ along the upper boundary $\delta K$. Then we have $|K| = I(\mathbf{b}_1) + I(\mathbf{b}_2)$ for all $K$ including the case when $K$ has empty interior.

We stitch the following instances of Mamikon's theorem. First, by [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-mamikon]] on the curve $\mathbf{b}_1$ and $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$, we get the following after some rearrangement. 
$$
\begin{align}
I(\mathbf{y}) - I(\mathbf{b}_1) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega h^+_K(t)^2 \, dt - (I(\mathbf{y}_K(\omega), p_\omega) - I(\mathbf{y}_K(0), A_K^-(0))) \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega h^+_K(t)^2 \, dt - \frac{1}{2} \left(\left( \mathbf{y}_K(\omega) - p_\omega \right) \cdot v_\omega + p_K(0) \right) 
\end{align}
$$

Let $\mathbf{z} : [\omega, \pi/2 + \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be defined as $\mathbf{z}(t) = c_K(\omega) \cap l_K(t)$ or $\mathbf{z}(\omega) = C_K^-(\omega)$. This is an absolutely continuous parametrization of line segment from $\mathbf{y}(\omega)$ to $C_K^-(\omega)$ by xx. Also, let $\tau(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{z}(t) = v_K^+(t) - \tau(t) u_t$. Second:
$$
I(\mathbf{z}) - I(\mathbf{b}_2) + I(C_K^-(\omega), C_K^+(\omega)) - I(\mathbf{y}(\omega), p_\omega) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{\omega}^{\pi/2 + \omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt
$$
As $\mathbf{z}$ is a line segment from $\mathbf{y}(\omega)$ to $C_K^-(\omega)$, we have $I(\mathbf{z}) = I(\mathbf{y}(\omega), C_K^-(\omega))$. So some rearrangement gives this. 
$$
- I(\mathbf{b}_2)  = \frac{1}{2} \int_{\omega}^{\pi/2 + \omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt - (I(\mathbf{y}(\omega), C_K^+(\omega)) - I(\mathbf{y}(\omega), p_\omega))
$$
Also observe that in the right-hand side, the first term is nonnegative and the second term is linear. Add the two equations togeter, and we get this.
$$
I(\mathbf{y}) - I(\delta K) = I(\mathbf{y}) - I(\mathbf{b}_1) - I(\mathbf{b}_2) =\frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega h^+_K(t)^2 \, dt +  \frac{1}{2} \int_{\omega}^{\pi/2 + \omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt + \left( \text{linear terms} \right) 
$$
Observe that $I(\mathbf{y}) - I(\mathbf{x})$ is linear in terms of $K$ and $I(\delta K) = |K|$. So this proves the following formula. 
$$
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - I(\mathbf{x}) = - \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega h^+_K(t)^2 \, dt -  \frac{1}{2} \int_{\omega}^{\pi/2 + \omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt + \left( \text{linear terms} \right) 
$$
□

