Here, we show that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a concave function. This with [[02. Calculus of Variation on A1#^thm-maximum-presofa-a1-critical]] shows that $K_1$ attains the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$.

To do so, we find a new formula of $\mathcal{A}_1$ as the following.
> __Theorem [a1-mamikon].__ The following holds for any cap $K$. ^thm-a1-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = 
$$

_Proof._ Divide the path $\delta K$ into two parts.
- The path $\mathbf{b}_1$ from $A_K^-(0)$ to $p_\omega$ along the upper boundary $\delta K$.
- The path $\mathbf{b}_2$ from $p_\omega$ to $C_K^+(\omega)$.
Here, if $\omega = \pi/2$ then $p_\omega$ is undefined, so let $p_\omega = A^+_K(\pi/2) = C^+_K(0)$ in this case.

Then stitch the following instances of Mamikon's theorem. First:
$$
I(\mathbf{y}) - I(\mathbf{b}_1) + I(\mathbf{y}(\omega), p_\omega) - I(\mathbf{y}(0), A_K^-(0)) = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega h^+_K(t)^2 \, dt
$$
Rearrange to get this. Note that the first term on the right-hand side is always nonnegative.


Let $\mathbf{z} : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be defined as $\mathbf{z}(t) = c_K(\omega) \cap c_K(t)$ or $\mathbf{z}(\omega) = C_K^-(\omega)$. This is an absolutely continuous parametrization of line segment from $p = c_K(\omega) \cap c_K(0)$ to $C_K^-(\omega)$ by xx. Also, let $\tau(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{z}(t) = C_K^+(t) - \tau(t) u_t$. Second:
$$
I(\mathbf{z}) - I(\mathbf{b}_2) + I(C_K^-(\omega), C_K^+(\omega)) - I(p, p_\omega) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{0}^{\omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt
$$
As $\mathbf{z}$ is a line segment from $p$ to $C_K^-(\omega)$, we have $I(\mathbf{z}) = I(p, C_K^-(\omega))$. So some rearrangement gives this. 
$$
I(p, C_K^+(\omega)) - I(p, p_\omega)  - I(\mathbf{b}_2)  = \frac{1}{2} \int_{0}^{\omega} \tau(t)^2 \, dt
$$


□

Need to work on closed interval version of the thing as well.

- A convex map from a convex space to a vector space can be extended to the affine space to a vector space.
- Likewise, so for bilinear maps.
- For affine bilinear functionals, it is convex if and only if it is (nonnegative bilinear functional) + (linear terms)
- Let $p$ be the collection of say, functions with both left and right differentiations, bounded. Then the value exists as they are all linear.
- Affine bilinear map is always positive -> It is convex. BUT WHY?????
	- $f(\lambda x + (1 - \lambda) y) \geq 0$ for any $\lambda \in \mathbb{R}$. This means that the value, while being a quadratic polynomial in $\lambda$, is nonnegative. A quadratic nonnegative polynomial is always convex. Thus, this term is convex in terms of $\lambda$. And it is sufficient for convexity of whole $f$.

So a sketch would start like this.

First, we show some formula F1 for $\mathcal{A}_1$ using Mamikon.

Let's show that this is convex. 
_Proof._ Observe that F1 can be extended to a vector space $V$ naturally on any function $p$. 
Also observe that all caps embed into $V$ as a convex subset.
Thus, it is sufficient to show that F1 is convex on $V$. 

$f(\lambda x + (1 - \lambda) y) \geq 0$ for any $\lambda \in \mathbb{R}$. This means that the value, while being a quadratic polynomial in $\lambda$, is nonnegative. A quadratic nonnegative polynomial is always convex. Thus, this term is convex in terms of $\lambda$. And it is sufficient for convexity of whole $f$.

Remaining tasks: find the actual formula. Preferrably only using $p$.s
Issue: 


□