We prove the generalized [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] of the main [[01. Introduction/03. Main result#^thm-main]] in this section. We do this by constructing and maximizing the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ as described in the introduction.

[[25. Upper bound A1/01. Definition of A1]] defines the value $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ of a cap $K$ as the area of $K$ subtracted by the area $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ enclosed by the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$ ([[25. Upper bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^def-a1]]). Then [[25. Upper bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^thm-a1-upper-bound]] proves that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is indeed an upper bound of $\mathcal{A}$ for monotone sofas satisfying the injectivity condition.

[[25. Upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation]] shows that the domain $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{A}_1$, the space of all caps $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$, is convex ([[25. Upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^pro-cap-space-convex-space]]). Then [[25. Upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation]] sets up the calculus of variation on a general concave quadratic functional $f$ on convex domain $\mathcal{K}$. In particular, we introduce the notion of _directional derivative_ $Df(K; -)$ of $f$ ([[25. Upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^def-convex-space-directional-derivative]]), and show that any critical point $K \in \mathcal{K}$ satisfying $D f(K; -) \leq 0$ is a global maximum ([[25. Upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^thm-quadratic-variation]]).

[[25. Upper bound A1/03. Boundary measure]] establishes that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a quadratic functional on its domain $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. We introduce the _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ of a cap $K$ ([[25. Upper bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^def-boundary-measure]]) that essentially measures the side lengths of the upper boundary $\delta K$, which will be useful in computing the derivative of $\mathcal{A}_1$; see the example following [[25. Upper bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^def-boundary-measure]] for an idea of $\beta_K$. We will establish the bijective correspondence between $K$ and $\beta_K$ ([[25. Upper bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]] and [[25. Upper bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]]).

[[25. Upper bound A1/10. Concavity of A1]] establishes the concavity of $\mathcal{A}_1$, so that a local optimum of $\mathcal{A}_1$ is also a global optimum of $\mathcal{A}_1$. We will define the area $\mathcal{S}(K)$ of a region swept by segments tangent to $K$ (see ). Mamikon's theorem states that the area $\mathcal{S}(K)$ is equal to half the integral of the square of lengths of the tangent segments. This shows that $\mathcal{S}(K)$ as a 'sum-of-squares' is convex with respect to $K$. We then show that $\mathcal{S}(K) + \mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is linear with respect to $K$, showing the concavity of $\mathcal{A}_1$.

[[25. Upper bound A1/15. Directional Derivative of A1]] calculates the directional derivative of $\mathcal{A}_1$. Finally, [[25. Upper bound A1/20. Maximizer of A1]] finds the maximizer $K = K_{\omega, 1}$ of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ by solving for the condition where directional derivative is always zero.