In [[15. Sofa Area Functional#^con-gerver-cap]], we turned the moving sofa problem into optimization of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. Our main observation here is that the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ is a _convex space_.

In general, a set $\mathcal{K}$ is a convex space if it is equipped with a convex combination operation $c_\lambda(-, -) : \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \to \mathcal{K}$ for every $\lambda \in [0, 1]$ such that it satisfies a set of axioms matchiing the properties of convex-linear combination in a real vector space (e.g. axioms 1-4 of [[@nlab-convex-space]]). Any real vector space $V$ is a convex space with $c_\lambda(v_1, v_2) = (1 - \lambda) v_1 + \lambda v_2$. For the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$, define their convex combination as $c_\lambda(K_1, K_2) = (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ using the Minkowski sum. Then it is rountine to check that the combination is also a cap with rotation angle $\omega$, and that the combination satisfies the axioms of convex space.

# Calculus of Variation

In general, a function $f : \mathcal{K} \to V$ from a convex space $\mathcal{K}$ to a convex space $V$ is _convex-linear_ if $f(c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)) = c_\lambda(f(K_1), f(K_2))$ for all $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$ and $\lambda \in [0, 1]$. Call a functional $f : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ on $\mathcal{K}$ a _linear functional_ on $\mathcal{K}$ if it is convex-linear. Many values on the cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ are convex-linear. The support function $p_K$ is convex-linear with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. For an arbitrary angle $t \in S^1$, the vertices $A_K^+(t), A_K^-(t), C_K^+(t), C_K^-(t)$ ([[15. Sofa Area Functional#^def-cap-vertices]]) are all convex-linear with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. Likewise, the corners $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ are convex-linear with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. 

In this paper, for a convex space $\mathcal{K}$ call a function $g : \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ _convex-bilinear_ if the maps $g(K_1, -)$ and $g(-, K_2)$ are convex-linear for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$. Call a functional $h : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ a _quadratic functional_ on $\mathcal{K}$ if $h(K) = g(K, K)$ for some convex-bilinear function $g$. Note that in our definitions, a linear functional $f$ on $\mathcal{K}$ is also quadratic because $f(K) = g(K, K)$ where $g(K_1, K_2) = f(K_1)$ is convex-bilinear. For an example, we will soon see that the area $|K|$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is a quadratic functional on the space of caps. The sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ with respect to cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is very likely not a quadratic functional. But we will soon construct upper bounds $\mathcal{A}_1$ and $\mathcal{A}_2$ of $\mathcal{A}$ that are concave quadratic functionals on cap space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. Then finding the global maximum of $\mathcal{A}_1$ and $\mathcal{A}_2$ on a convex subset of $\mathcal{K}$ can be done using the calculus of variation as the following.

Suppose that we want to find the maximizer $K$ of a quadratic functional $f$ on a convex space $\mathcal{K}$. Then in particular, for any value $K' \in \mathcal{K}$ the value $f(c_\lambda(K, K'))$ should attain its maximum at $\lambda = 0$. So the following value should be nonnegative.

> __Definition [convex-space-directional-derivative].__ For any convex space $\mathcal{K}$ with convex combination $c_\lambda(-, -)$ and a quadratic functional $f : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}$, define the following. ^def-convex-space-directional-derivative
$$
Df_K(K') = \left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} f(c_\lambda(K, K'))
$$

We can see [[01. Space of Caps#^def-convex-space-directional-derivative]] as the generalization of Gateaux derivative to arbitrary convex spaces. For any quadratic functional $f$ and a fixed $K \in \mathcal{K}$ the value $Df(K; K')$ is always a linear functional of $K'$.

> __Lemma [derivative-calculation].__ For any convex space $\mathcal{K}$ with convex combination $c_\lambda(-, -)$, and a convex-bilinear map $h : \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$, define $f(K) = h(K, K)$. We have the following. ^lem-derivative-calculation
$$
Df(K; K') = h(K, K') + h(K', K) - 2 h (K, K)
$$
> So in particular, the map $Df(K; -) : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ is well-defined and always a linear functional. 

_Proof._ We have the following computation by bilinearlity of $h$. ^eqn-quadratic-functional
$$
\begin{align*}
f(c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)) & = h(c_\lambda(K_1, K_2), c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)) \\
& = (1 - \lambda)^2 h(K_1, K_1) + \lambda (1 - \lambda) \left( h(K_1, K_2) + c_\lambda (K_2, K_1) \right) + \lambda^2 h(K_2, K_2)
\end{align*}
$$
We get the result by taking derivative near $\lambda = 0$. □

To prove that $K$ maximizes a concave quadratic functional $f(K)$ on $\mathcal{K}$, we only need to prove that $Df(K; -)$ is a nonpositive linear functional on $\mathcal{K}$. 

> __Theorem [quadratic-variation].__ For any concave quadratic functional $f$ on a convex space $\mathcal{K}$ with convex combination $c_\lambda(-, -)$, the value $K \in \mathcal{K}$ maximizes $f(K)$ if and only if the linear functional $Df(K; -)$ is nonpositive. ^thm-quadratic-variation

_Proof._ The 'only if' part is obvious. Assume an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$ such that $Df(K; -)$ is always nonpositive. Take any $K' \in \mathcal{K}$. Observe that $f(c_\lambda(K, K'))$ is a polynomial $p(\lambda)$ of $\lambda \in [0, 1]$ by [[01. Space of Caps#^eqn-quadratic-functional]]. Because $f$ is concave, the polynomial $p(\lambda)$ is also concave with respect to $\lambda$ and the quadratic coefficient of $p(\lambda)$ is nonpositive. The linear coefficient of $p(\lambda)$ is $Df(K; K')$ which is nonpositive as well. So $p(\lambda)$ is monotonically decreasing with respect to $\lambda$ and we have $f(K) \geq f(K')$ as desired. □

# Surface Area Measure

The _surface area measure_ $\beta_K$ of a convex body $K$ is a measure on $S^1$ that will be a key ingredient in our calculus of variation. We prepare basic propositions on $\beta_K$ before diving into 

If $K$ is a convex polygon, then $\beta_K$ is a discrete measure such that the measure at point $t$ is the length of the edge $e_K(t)$. If the tangent line $l_K(t)$ touches $K$ at a single point $v_K(t)$ which is continuously differentiable with respect to $t$, then we have $\beta_K(dt) = \left\lVert v'(t) \right\rVert dt$.  For example, if $K$ is a disk with radius 1, then $\beta_K$ is the Lebesgue measure on $S^1 = \mathbb{R} / 2 \pi \mathbb{Z}$.

The surface area measure $\beta_K$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$ (e.g. from (5.27), p284 of [[@schneider_2013]], and that in dimension $n=2$ the mixed area measure is equal to the surface area measure). Note that for any measurable function $f$ on a space $X$ and a measure $\beta$ on $K$, we denote the integral $\int_{x \in X} f(x)\,\beta(dx)$ as $\left< f, \beta \right>_{X}$. We have ^eqn-mixed-area
$$
V(K_1, K_2) = \left< p_{K_1}, \beta_{K_2} \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$
where $V(K_1, K_2)$ is the mixed volume of arbitrary convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$ (Theorem 5.1.7, p280 of [[@schneider_2013]]), so we have ^eqn-area
$$
|K| = \left< p_K, \beta_K \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$
for any convex body $K$ in particular. Thus the area $|K|$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is a quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

Gauss-Minkowski theorem states that any convex set $K$, up to translation, corresponds one-to-one to a measure $\beta = \beta_K$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1}u_t\,\beta(dt) = 0$. Using this correspondence, we establish a correspondence between any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and its surface area measure $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$, the surface area measure $\beta_K$ of $K$ on $S^1$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ and satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-measure-cap
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$

_Proof._ $\beta_K$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ by (TODO: some theorem in appendix). We have $\left( A^+_K(\omega) - A^-_K(0) \right) \cdot v_0 = 1$ because for a cap $K$, the point $A_K^+(\omega)$ is on the line $y=1$ and $A_K^-(0)$ is on the line $y=0$. So by (TODO: some theorem in appendix), we get the first equation. The second equation can be obtained by a symmetric argument. □

> __Theorem [cap-from-boundary-measure].__ Conversely to [[#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]], let $\beta$ be a measure on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$ that satisfies the following equations. ^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta(dt) = 1
$$
> Then the followings hold.
> 
> - If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$. This is unique up to horizontal translation: all the other caps $K'$ satisfying the same condition is a horizontal translation of $K$.
> - If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$.

_Proof._ We first observe that there is a unique extension of $\beta$ on the set $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ such that $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$. Let $A = \int_{t \in \Theta}\sin(t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta} v_t \,\beta(dt) = - A u_0 + v_0$ by the first condition. Likewise, if we let $B = \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi / 2} \sin(\omega + \pi/2 - t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2}v_t\,\beta(dt) = B v_\omega - u_\omega$. By solving for $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$, we get the unique extension of $\beta$ on the points $\pi + \omega$ and $3\pi/2$ as the followings.

- If $\omega = \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = \beta(\left\{ 3\pi / 2 \right\}) = \int_{t \in \Theta \cup \Theta + \pi/2} \sin(t) \, \beta(dt) \geq 0$
- If $\omega < \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = B + v_\omega \cdot p_\omega > 0$ and $\beta(\left\{ 3 \pi/2 \right\}) = A + u_0 \cdot p_\omega \geq 0$.

Now we use (TODO: some theorem in appendix). If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ up to translation so that $\beta_K$ has support in $\Pi$ and $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$. The equations on $\beta$ imply that the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $v_0$ is 1. So among all possible translations of $K$, the body that is a cap ($p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$) is unique up to horizontal translation. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ such that $\beta_K$ has support in $\Pi$, $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$, and $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$. The equations on $\beta$ is equivalent to that $K$ has width 1 in the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$. So this $K$ is a cap. □

