We will prove the main [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^pro-main-cap]] using an upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$. Here we first define $\mathcal{A}_1$. Define the _curve area functional_ on an arbitrary rectifiable curve $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [planar-cross-product].__ For two points $(a, b), (c, d) \in \mathbb{R}^2$, denote their cross product as $(a, b) \times (c, d) = ad - bc \in \mathbb{R}$. ^def-planar-cross-product

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any curve equipped with a continuous parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of bounded variation. With $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t))$, define the _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ of $\Gamma$ as the following. ^def-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t) dy(t) - y(t) dx(t)
$$
> Also, write $\mathcal{I}(p, q)$ for the area functional of the line segment connecting point $p$ to $q$, so that we have $\mathcal{I}(p, q) = 1/2 \cdot (p \times q)$.

Note that $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is of bounded variation, so the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d \mathbf{x}(t) = (dx(t), dy(t))$ of the coordinates $x(t)$ and $y(t)$ exists, and the integral in [[01. Definition of A1#^def-curve-area-functional]] is well-defined. Note also that the value of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ does not change even if we take a different parametrization of the curve $\Gamma$. By Green's theorem we have the following.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-area].__ If $\mathbf{x}$ is a Jordan curve oriented counterclockwise (resp. clockwise), $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the exact area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$ (resp. the area with a negative sign). ^pro-curve-area-functional-area

If $\mathbf{x}$ is not closed (that is, $\mathbf{x}(a) \neq \mathbf{x}(b)$), the sofa area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}$, and then the line segments connecting $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ respectiely. We also have the following additivity of $\mathcal{I}$.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-additive].__ If $\gamma$ is the concatenation of two curves $\alpha$ and $\beta$ then $\mathcal{I}(\gamma) = \mathcal{I}(\alpha) + \mathcal{I}(\beta)$. ^pro-curve-area-functional-additive

For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we want the value of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ to be essentially the area of $K$ minus the area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega]$. We want to express the area enclosed by $\mathbf{x}_K$ as $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$. Note that the support function $p_K$ of $K$ is Lipschitz, so
$$
\mathbf{x}_K(t) = (p_K(t) - 1) u_t + (p_K(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t
$$
is also Lipschitz.

> __Proposition [inner-corner-lipschitz].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}$ is Lipschitz. ^pro-inner-corner-lipschitz

Thus $\mathbf{x}_K$ is of bounded variation and the value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is well-defined. With this, define the functional $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ as the following.

> __Definition [a1].__ For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and cap $K$ in $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, define $\mathcal{A}_{1, \omega}(K) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$. If the rotation angle $\omega$ is clear from the context, denote $\mathcal{A}_{1, \omega}$ as simply $\mathcal{A}_1$. ^def-a1

We now show that $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ if $\mathbf{x}_K$ is injective and in the fan $F_\omega$. Our key observation is the following.

> __Lemma [curve-area-functional-lower-bound].__ Let $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ be arbitrary. Let $\mathbf{z} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be any open simple curve (that is, a curve with $t_0 < t_1$ and injective parametrization $\mathbf{z}$) inside the set $F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$, such that the starting point $\mathbf{z}(t_0)$ is on the boundary $l(\pi/2, 0) \cap F_\omega$ of $F_\omega$, and the endpoint $\mathbf{z}(t_1)$ is on the boundary $l(\omega, 0) \cap F_\omega$ of $F_\omega$. Then we have $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z}) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. ^lem-curve-area-functional-lower-bound

_Proof._ Define $\mathbf{b}$ as the curve from $\mathbf{z}(t_1)$ to $\mathbf{z}(t_0)$ along the boundary $\partial F_\omega$ of fan $F_\omega$ (so $\mathbf{b}$ is either a segment or the concatenation of two segments). Since $\mathbf{z}$ is injective, we have $\mathbf{z}(t_0) \neq \mathbf{z}(t_1)$ so $\mathbf{b}$ is also an open simple curve. For every $\epsilon > 0$, define the closed curve $\Gamma_\epsilon$ as the concatenation of the following curves in order: the curve $\mathbf{z}(t)$, the vertical segment from $\mathbf{z}(t_1)$ to $\mathbf{z}(t_1) - (0, \epsilon)$, the curve $\mathbf{b} - (0, \epsilon)$ shifted downwards by $\epsilon$, and then the vertical segment from $\mathbf{z}(t_0) - (0, \epsilon)$ to $\mathbf{z}(t_0)$. The curve $\Gamma_{\epsilon}$ is a Jordan curve because $\mathbf{z}$ is an open simple curve inside $F_\omega$. By Jordan curve theorem, the curve $\Gamma_\epsilon$ encloses an open set $\mathcal{N}_\epsilon$. Define $\mathcal{N}_0$ as the intersection $F_{\omega} \cap \mathcal{N}_{\epsilon}$, then $\mathcal{N}_0$ is independent of the choice of $\epsilon > 0$; for any $\epsilon_1 > \epsilon_2 > 0$, there is a continuous deformation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that fixes $F_\omega$ and shrinks $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega$ vertically so that it shrinks $\Gamma_{\epsilon_1}$ to $\Gamma_{\epsilon_2}$. Moreover, $\mathcal{N}_{\epsilon}$ is the disjoint union of $\mathcal{N}_0$ and the fixed region below $\partial F_\omega$ of area $\left| \mathbf{z}(t_1) - \mathbf{z}(t_0) \right| \epsilon$.

We have $\left| \mathcal{N}_\epsilon \right| = \left| \mathcal{I}(\Gamma_\epsilon) \right|$ by Green's theorem on $\Gamma_\epsilon$ regardless of the orientation of $\Gamma_\epsilon$. By sending $\epsilon \to 0$, we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = \left| \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z}) \right|$. We now show $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ which finishes the proof. Take any $p \in \mathcal{N}_0$. Take the ray $r$ emanating from $p$ in the direction $v_0$, then it should cross some point $q \neq p$ in the curve $\mathbf{z}$. As $\mathbf{z}$ is inside the set $F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$, the point $q$ is contained in $F_{\omega} \cap \overline{Q_K^-(t)}$ for some $0 \leq t \leq \omega$. We have $t \neq 0, \omega$ because $q$ is strictly above the boundary of $F_\omega$, and for $t=0, \pi/2$ the set $Q^-_K(t)$ is either on or below $\partial F_\omega$. Because the point $p$ is in $F_{\omega}$ and strictly below the point $q$, it should be that $p$ is contained in $F_{\pi/2} \cap Q_K^-(t)$. So the point $p$ is in the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$, and we have $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$. □

We can freely choose the curve $\mathbf{z}$ inside the set $F_{\pi/2} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \pi/2} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$. In this paper, we simply choose $\mathbf{z} = \mathbf{x}_K$ and get the following.

> __Theorem [a1-upper-bound].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$, if the curve $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is injective and in $F_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K)$. ^thm-a1-upper-bound

_Proof._ Since $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in \overline{Q_K^-(t)}$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$ and we assumed that $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega$, the curve $z := \mathbf{x}_K$ is an open simple curve inside $F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$. Also, by $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ we have $\mathbf{x}_K(0) \in l(\pi/2, 0)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega) \in l(\omega, 0)$. So the curve $\mathbf{z} := \mathbf{x}_K$ satisfies the condition of [[01. Definition of A1#^lem-curve-area-functional-lower-bound]], and we have $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. So we have 
$$
\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)| \leq |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) = \mathcal{A}_1(K)
$$
which finishes the proof. □

# Derivative of the inner corner

The formula ([[01. Definition of A1#^def-curve-area-functional]]) of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ requires us to take derivative of the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$. We end this subsection by calculating the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K$ explicitly. Define the _arm lengths_ of tangent hallways of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ be arbitrary. For any $t \in [0, \omega]$, let $g_K^+(t)$ (resp. $g_K^-(t)$) be the real value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^+_K(t) + g_K^+(t) v_t$ (resp. $\mathbf{y}(t) = A^-_K(t) + g_K^-(t) v_t$). So in particular we have $g_K^{\pm}(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - A_K^{\pm}(t) \right) \cdot v_t$.
> 
> Similarly, let $h_K^+(t)$ (resp. $h_K^-(t)$) be the value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = C^+_K(t) + h_K^+(t) u_t$ (resp. $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^-_K(t) + h_K^-(t) u_t$). So in particular we have $h_K^{\pm}(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - C_K^{\pm}(t) \right) \cdot u_t$.
> 
> Call $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $h_K^{\pm}(t)$ the _arm lengths_ of $K$. ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length

The derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K$ can be expressed in terms of the arm lengths of $K$.

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the right derivative of the outer and inner corner $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ exists for any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^+ \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^+(t) u_t + h_K^+(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^+(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, the left derivative of $\mathbf{y}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \omega$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^- \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^-(t) u_t + h_K^-(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^-(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^-(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$ in vertices $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and tangent lines $a_K(t)$. Take any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We evaluate $\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{y}(s) - \mathbf{y}(t)) / \delta$. Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$ and $A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_s$. Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t).
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with $\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$, then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. We get the following limit as $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$ ([[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]).
$$ \partial^+ (\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = - g^+(t)$$
A similar argument can be applied to show $\partial^+ (\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot v_t) = h^+(t)$ and thus the first equation of the theorem. The right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ comes from $\mathbf{x}_K(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - u_t - v_t$. A symmetric argument calculates the left derivative of $\mathbf{y}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K$. □

> __Remark [inner-corner-deriv].__ The resulting equation $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^+(t) - 1) v_t$ in [[01. Definition of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] can be interpreted intuitively as the following. Imagine the hallway $L_K(t)$ where we increment $t$ slightly by $\epsilon > 0$. If $\epsilon$ is very small, the wall $c_K(t)$ rotates around the pivot $C_K^+(t)$. As $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ rotates differentially with the pivot $C_K^+(t)$ as center, the $v_t$ component $h_K^+(t) - 1$ of the derivative $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is the distance from the pivot $C_K^+(t)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ measured in the direction of $u_t$. The $u_t$ component $-(g_K^+(t) - 1)$ of $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ can be interpreted similarly as the distance from pivot $A^+_K(t)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ along the direction $v_t$. ^rem-inner-corner-deriv