In this section, we construct a convex upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ of the area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ under the _injectivity hypothesis_. We start off by stating the precise statement of the injectivity hypothesis.

> __Theorem [injectivity].__ There is a maximum-area monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K$ and rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ such that $S$ attains the maximum area of a sofa and the followings are true. ^thm-injectivity
> 
> 1. The inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the rotating hallway $L_S(t)$ is injective and thus a Jordan arc with respect to $t \in [0, \omega]$.
> 2. For any $t \in (0, \omega)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in the interior $F_\omega^\circ$ of the fan always. Thus, the curve always goes through the interior of the fan.
> 3. If $\omega = \pi/2$, then the starting point $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ of the arc is strictly on the right side of the ending point $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2)$ of the arc. That is, $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2) \cdot u_0 < \mathbf{x}_K(0) \cdot u_0$.
> 4. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then both the starting point $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ and the ending point $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega)$ of the arc are not $(0, 0)$ and on the boundary of the fan $F_\omega$.

The conditions are chosen to guarantee that the closed curve $\Gamma$ formed by the trajectory of the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and either the segment connecting $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ (if $\omega=\pi/2$) or two segments connecting $\mathbf{x}_{K}(\pi/2)$, $(0, 0)$, and $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is a Jordan curve. We now define the quadratic functional upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ of the area $\mathcal{A}$ on the cap space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

> __Definition [a1].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, define $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ where $I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is the [[02. Notations and Conventions#^def-curve-area-functional|area functional]] of the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of the rotating hallway $L_{K}(t)$. Note that $\mathbf{x}_K$ is both left and right [[03. Space of Caps#^def-inner-corner-deriv|differentiable]], so it is absolutely continuous and the value $I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is well-defined. ^def-a1

Assuming the [[01. Injectivity Hypothesis and A1#^thm-injectivity|injectivity hypothesis]], $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$.

> __Theorem [a1-is-upper-bound].__ For any maximum monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ satisfying the conditions of the [[01. Injectivity Hypothesis and A1#^thm-injectivity|injectivity hypothesis]], we have $|S| \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K)$. That is, $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area of sofa $S$. ^thm-a1-is-upper-bound

_Proof._ We have $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ by [[02. Monotone Sofas#^thm-niche-in-cap]]. So it is sufficient to show that $I(\mathbf{x}_K) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. We construct a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ consisting of the following paths.

- The line segment $s_R$ from the point $(0, 0)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$
- The path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$
- The line segment $s_L$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega)$ to the point $(0, 0)$.

First observe that the line segments $s_L$ and $s_R$ are contained in the bottom sides $l(\omega) \cap P_\omega$ and $l(\pi/2) \cap P_\omega$ of $P_\omega$ respectively. Each path is injective, and so the joined path $\Gamma$ formed by joining all the three paths is a Jordan curve by [[01. Injectivity Hypothesis and A1#^thm-injectivity]]. So by [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-jordan-curve]], $\Gamma$ divides the plane into an unbounded region and a bounded region. Let $\mathcal{N}_0$ be the bounded open region. 

We observe that $\Gamma$ is oriented counterclockwise. There could be many ways to show this, but one way is to modify the path $\Gamma$ slightly. Take $\epsilon > 0$ sufficiently small so that the circle centered at the origin of radius $\epsilon$ meets the line segments $s_L$ and $s_R$ at points $p_L$ and $p_R$ in their interior. Replace the parts of $\Gamma$ which are line segments connecting $p_L$ and $p_R$ to the origin, to a counterclockwise circular arc from $s_L$ to $s_R$ centered at the origin. Call the new curve $\Gamma'$ and observe by definition that $\Gamma'$ is a Jordan curve. Then as there is a homotopy between the paths $\Gamma$ and $\Gamma'$ the orientation of $\Gamma$ and $\Gamma'$ are the same. The origin is in the interior of the region bounded by $\Gamma$. Consider the ray $r$ downwards starting from the origin. Then the curve $\Gamma'$ crosses $r$ only once, and it is trasversal from left to right. So $\Gamma'$ is oriented counterclockwise, and so is $\Gamma$.

As $\Gamma$ is oriented clockwise, we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = I(\Gamma)$, and as $I(\Gamma) = I(s_R) + I(\mathbf{x}_K) + I(s_L) = I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = I(\mathbf{x}_K)$.

Next we show $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ which closes the goal as $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| \leq \left| \mathcal{N}(K) \right|$. Take any $p \in \mathcal{N}_0$. Take the ray $r = R_p(\pi/2)$ starting from $p$ upwards, then it should cross some point in the path $\Gamma$. As $\Gamma$ is inside $F_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq F_\omega$ and so $p \in F_\omega$ as well. As $p$ is in $F_\omega$ and $p$ itself is not in $\Gamma$, we can show that the intersection point of $r$ and $\Gamma$ should be in the path $\mathbf{x}_K$. As some inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the hallway $L_K(t)$ is on the ray $r$, and the set $Q^-_K(t)$ is closed in the downwards direction, the point $p$ should be in $P_\omega \cap Q^-_K(t)$ and so in $\mathcal{N}(K)$. This shows $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ and we're done. □

> __Remark [a1-is-upper-bound].__ The proof of [[#^thm-a1-is-upper-bound]] also depends on the fact that the set $Q^-_K(t)$ carved out by the hallway is closed in the downwards direction. That is, it relies heavily on the fact that the hallway is rotating by 90 degrees. ^rem-a1-is-upper-bound

We present a useful formula to work with $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$.

> __Definition [j].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ define the set $J_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \pi/2 + \omega]$. ^def-j

> __Theorem [a1-formula].__ The following equation holds. ^thm-a1-formula
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{J_\omega} p_K(t) \beta_K(dt) - 
\frac{1}{2} \int_{[0, \omega]} \mathbf{x}_K(t) \times \mathbf{v}_K(t) dt
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ This is a combination of [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]] and [[03. Geometric Results#^def-curve-area-functional]] applied to the definition of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$. □

Observe that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a quadratic functional.

> __Corollary [a1-quadratic].__ $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^cor-a1-quadratic

_Proof._ Use [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]] and [[03. Space of Caps#^lem-quadratic-functional]] on the equation in [[#^thm-a1-formula]]. Note that for a function $f$ and measure $\mu$, the value $\int f \,d \mu$ is a bilinear form of $f$ and $\mu$. □