Here, we observe that $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ is quadratic.

> __Theorem [a1-quadratic].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, the functional $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_{\omega} \to \mathbb{R}$ is quadratic. ^thm-a1-quadratic

The _surface area measure_ $\beta_K$ of $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ will be crucial in establishing [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-a1-quadratic]]. Also, we will establish a correspondence between any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and its surface area measure $\beta_K$ ([[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]] and [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]]).

# Convex-linear values of cap

We note that a lot of values defined on the cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$.

> __Theorem [cap-convex-linear].__ The following values are convex-linear with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^thm-cap-convex-linear
> 
> - Support function $p_K$
> - Vertices $A^{\pm}_K(t)$ and $C^{\pm}_K(t)$ for a fixed $t \in [0, \omega]$
> - The inner and outer corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ of the tangent hallway with any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$
> - The points $W_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the values $w_K(t)$, $z_K(t)$ for a fixed $t \in (0, \omega)$
> - The perpendicular leg lengths $g^{\pm}_K(t)$ and $h^{\pm}_K(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$

[[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-cap-convex-linear]] in particular establishes that the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is quadratic with respect to $K$ (see [[01. Definition of A1#^def-curve-area-functional]]).

> __Corollary [inner-corner-quadratic].__ The value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is quadratic with respect to $K$. ^cor-inner-corner-quadratic

# Surface area measure

A key component in our analysis of $\mathcal{A}_1$ is the _surface area measure_ $\beta_K$ of a planar convex body $K$. $\beta_K$ is a measure on $S^1$ that essentially measures the side lengths of $K$. For example, if $K$ is a convex polygon, then $\beta_K$ is a discrete measure such that the measure $\beta_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right)$ at point $t$ is the length of the edge $e_K(t)$. On the other hand, assume now that for every $t \in S^1$ the tangent line $l_K(t)$ meets $K$ at a single point $v(t)$, so that $\partial K$ is parametrized smoothly by $v_K(t)$ for $t \in S^1$. Then it turns out that $\beta_K(dt) = R(t) dt$ where $R(t) = \left\lVert v'(t) \right\rVert$ is the radius of curvature of $\partial K$ at $v(t)$. Because $\beta_K$ measures the side lengths (both discrete and differential) of a convex body $K$, we have the following theorem.

> __Theorem [surface-area-measure-vertex].__ For any convex body $K$, the following _vertex formulas_ hold. For any $a < b$ such that $b \leq a + 2\pi$, the followings are true. ^thm-surface-area-measure-vertex
$$
\int_{(a, b]} v_t \, \beta_K(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) 
$$
$$
\int_{[a, b]} v_t \, \beta_K(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^-(a) 
$$
> In short, $dv_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$.

We elaborate the meaning of $dv_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$. Here, the function $v_K^+ : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}^{2}$ is right-continuous so the pair of Lebesgue-Stieltjes measures $d v_K^+(t)$ of $v_K^+(t)$ exists for each $x$ and $y$ coordinate, and each would be equal to $\cos(t) \beta_K(dt)$ and $-\sin(t) \beta_K(dt)$. A rigorous proof of [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-surface-area-measure-vertex]] is done in Appendix A.

The surface area measure $\beta_K$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$. This comes from the fact that in dimension $n=2$, the surface area measure is equal to _the mixed area measure_ with $n-1 = 1$ argument, and that the mixed area measure is convex-linear with respect to each argument (Equation (5.27), p284 of [[@schneider_2013]]).

> __Theorem [surface-area-measure-convex-linear].__ The surface area measure $\beta_K$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$. ^thm-surface-area-measure-convex-linear

We also can represent the area of a convex body, or the mixed volume of two convex bodies, using the surface area measure. Note that for any measurable function $f$ on a space $X$ and a measure $\beta$ on $X$, we denote the integral of $f$ with respect to $\beta$ as $\left< f, \beta \right>_{X} = \int_{x \in X} f(x)\,\beta(dx)$.

> __Definition [mixed-volume].__ For two planar convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$, denote their mixed volume as $V(K_1, K_2)$. ^def-mixed-volume

> __Theorem [surface-area-measure-area].__ (Theorem 5.1.7 in p280 of [[@schneider_2013]]) The mixed volume $V(K_1, K_2)$ of any two planar convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$ can be represented as the following. ^thm-surface-area-measure-area
$$
V(K_1, K_2) = \left< p_{K_1}, \beta_{K_2} \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$
> Consequently, the area $|K|$ of any planar convex body $K$ can be represented as the following.
$$
|K| = \left< p_K, \beta_K \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$

Note that the support function $p_K$ of a convex body $K$ is convex-linear too. So by [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-surface-area-measure-convex-linear]] and [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-surface-area-measure-area]], we have the following.

> __Corollary [area-quadratic-functional].__ The area $|K|$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ is a quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ ^cor-area-quadratic-functional

Now [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-a1-quadratic]] is a consequence of [[03. A1 is quadratic#^cor-inner-corner-quadratic]] and [[03. A1 is quadratic#^cor-area-quadratic-functional]].

Gauss-Minkowski theorem states that any convex set $K$, up to translation, corresponds one-to-one to a measure $\beta = \beta_K$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1}u_t\,\beta(dt) = 0$. Using this correspondence, we establish a correspondence between any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and its surface area measure $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$, the surface area measure $\beta_K$ of $K$ on $S^1$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ and satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-measure-cap
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$

_Proof._ $\beta_K$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ by (TODO: some theorem in Appendix A). We have $\left( A^+_K(\omega) - A^-_K(0) \right) \cdot v_0 = 1$ because for a cap $K$, the point $A_K^+(\omega)$ is on the line $y=1$ and $A_K^-(0)$ is on the line $y=0$. So by (TODO: some theorem in Appendix A), we get the first equation. The second equation can be obtained by a symmetric argument. □

> __Theorem [cap-from-boundary-measure].__ Take arbitrary angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Conversely to [[#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]], let $\beta$ be a measure on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$ that satisfies the following equations. ^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta(dt) = 1
$$
> Then the followings hold.
> 
> - If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$. This is unique up to horizontal translation: all the other caps $K'$ satisfying the same condition is a horizontal translation of $K$.
> - If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$.

_Proof._ We first observe that there is a unique extension of $\beta$ on the set $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ such that $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$. Let $A = \int_{t \in \Theta}\sin(t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta} v_t \,\beta(dt) = - A u_0 + v_0$ by the first condition. Likewise, if we let $B = \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi / 2} \sin(\omega + \pi/2 - t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2}v_t\,\beta(dt) = B v_\omega - u_\omega$. By solving for $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$, we get the unique extension of $\beta$ to $\Pi$ with $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$ as the followings.

- If $\omega = \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = \beta(\left\{ 3\pi / 2 \right\}) = \int_{t \in \Theta \cup \Theta + \pi/2} \sin(t) \, \beta(dt) \geq 0$
- If $\omega < \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = B + v_\omega \cdot p_\omega > 0$ and $\beta(\left\{ 3 \pi/2 \right\}) = A + u_0 \cdot p_\omega \geq 0$.

Now we use the Gauss-Minkowski theorem (TODO: some theorem in Appendix A). If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ up to translation so that $\beta_K$ has support in $\Pi$ and $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$. The equations on $\beta$ imply that the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $v_0$ is 1. So among all possible translations of $K$, the body that is a cap ($p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$) is unique up to horizontal translation. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ such that $\beta_K$ has support in $\Pi$, $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$, and $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$. The equations on $\beta$ is equivalent to that $K$ has width 1 in the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$. So this $K$ is a cap. □