We will observe that $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ is a quadratic functional.

> __Theorem [a1-quadratic].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, the functional $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_{\omega} \to \mathbb{R}$ is quadratic. ^thm-a1-quadratic

To establish [[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-a1-quadratic]], we will define the _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ of $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and utilize it. Also, we will establish a correspondence between any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and its boundary measure $\beta_K$ ([[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]] and [[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]]).

# Convex-linear values of cap

We observe that a lot of values defined on the cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$. A reader interested in the details of proofs can read [[05. Vertex and support function]] for the full details. 

> __Theorem [cap-convex-linear].__ The following values are convex-linear with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^thm-cap-convex-linear
> 
> - Support function $p_K$
> - Vertices $A^{\pm}_K(t)$ and $C^{\pm}_K(t)$ for a fixed $t \in [0, \omega]$
> - The inner and outer corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ of the tangent hallway with any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$
> - The points $W_K(t)$, $Z_K(t)$ and the values $w_K(t)$, $z_K(t)$ for a fixed $t \in (0, \omega)$
> - The perpendicular leg lengths $g^{\pm}_K(t)$ and $h^{\pm}_K(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$

_Proof._ Use [[05. Vertex and support function#^pro-support-function-linear]] for $p_K$, [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^cor-vertex-linear]] for $A^{\pm}_K(t)$ and $C^{\pm}_K(t)$, [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^lem-tangent-lines-intersection-linear]] for $\mathbf{y}_K(t), W_K(t)$, and $Z_K(t)$. Use the equality $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = \mathbf{x}_K(t) + u_t + v_t$ for $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$, the equalities in [[15. Cap contains niche#^def-wedge-side-lengths]] for $w_K(t)$ and $z_K(t)$, and the equalities in [[01. Definition of A1#^def-cap-tangent-arm-length]] for $g^{\pm}_K(t)$ and $h^{\pm}_K(t)$. □

[[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-cap-convex-linear]] in particular establishes that the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ ([[01. Definition of A1#^def-curve-area-functional]]) is quadratic with respect to $K$.

> __Corollary [inner-corner-quadratic].__ The value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is quadratic with respect to $K$. ^cor-inner-corner-quadratic

# Boundary Measure

We now define the _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [boundary-measure].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega$, define the _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ of $K$ as the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ of $K$ restricted to the set $J_\omega$.
> ^def-boundary-measure

The boundary measure $\beta_K$ of cap $K$ describes the information of length of the upper boundary $\delta K$.

> __Proposition [boundary-measure-area].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we have
$$
|K| = \left< p_K, \beta_K \right>_{J_\omega}.
$$
> ^pro-boundary-measure-area

_Proof._  □

> __Corollary [area-quadratic-functional].__ The area $|K|$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ is a quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ ^cor-area-quadratic-functional

Now [[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^thm-a1-quadratic]] is a consequence of [[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^cor-inner-corner-quadratic]] and [[25. Upper Bound A1/03. Boundary measure#^cor-area-quadratic-functional]].

Gauss-Minkowski theorem ([[20. Normal angles#^thm-gauss-minkowski]]) states that any convex set $K$, up to translation, corresponds one-to-one to a measure $\beta = \beta_K$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1}u_t\,\beta(dt) = 0$. Using this correspondence, we can always construct a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ from a measure $\beta$ on the set $J_\omega$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-cap].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega$, its boundary measure $\beta_K$ satisfies the following equations. ^thm-boundary-measure-cap
$$
\int_{t \in [0, \omega]} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$

_Proof._ By the second condition of [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-cap]] and [[20. Normal angles#^thm-convex-set-support]], we have $\mathbf{n}(K) \subseteq J_\omega \cup \left\{ \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$. Now by [[20. Normal angles#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]], that the interval $(-\pi/2, 0)$ of $S^1$ is disjoint from $\Pi$ implies that the point $A_K^-(0)$ is on the line $l_K(3\pi/2)$ which is $y=0$. Likewise, that the interval $(\omega, \pi/2)$ of $S^1$ is disjoint from $\Pi$ implies that the point $A_K^+(\omega)$ is on the line $l_K(\pi/2)$ which is $y=1$. By [[10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-closed]] we have
$$
\int_{t \in [0, \omega]} v_t \, \beta_K(dt) = A^+_K(\omega) - A^-_K(0)
$$
and by taking the dot product with $v_0$ we have the first equality. The second equality can be proved similarly by measuring the displacement from $C_K^+(\omega)$ to $C_K^-(0)$ along the vector $u_\omega$. □

> __Theorem [cap-from-boundary-measure].__ Take arbitrary $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Conversely to [[#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]], let $\beta$ be a measure on $J_\omega$ that satisfies the following equations. ^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{t \in [0, \omega]} \cos(t) \, \beta(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta(dt) = 1
$$
> Then there exists a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ such that $\beta_K|_{J_\omega} = \beta$. Such $K$ is unique if $\omega < \pi/2$, and unique up to horizontal translation if $\omega = \pi/2$.

_Proof._ We first show that there is a unique extension of $\beta$ on the set $\Pi = J_\omega \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ such that $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$. The values of $\beta$ are determined on $J_\omega$, and we need to find the values of $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\})$ and $\beta(\left\{ 3 \pi/2 \right\})$ that satisfies the equation $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$.

If $\omega = \pi/2$, then by the two equations in the statement we have $\int_{t \in [0, \pi]} \cos(t)\,\beta(dt) = 0$. So the equation $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$ becomes $\beta(\left\{ 3\pi/2 \right\}) = \int_{t \in [0, \pi]} \sin (t) \,\beta(dt)$ which immediately gives a unique solution.

Now assume $\omega < \pi/2$. Let $A := \int_{t \in [0, \omega]}\sin(t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in [0, \omega]} v_t \,\beta(dt) = - A u_0 + v_0$ by the first equality of the theorem statement. Likewise, if we let $B := \int_{t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]} \sin(\omega + \pi/2 - t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]}v_t\,\beta(dt) = B v_\omega - u_\omega$ by the second equality of the theorem statement. Now the equation $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$ we are solving for becomes
$$
(-Au_0 + v_0) + (Bv_\omega - u_\omega) + \beta\left( \left\{ 3\pi/2 \right\}  \right)  u_0 - \beta\left( \left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}  \right)  v_\omega = 0
$$
and $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = B + v_\omega \cdot p_\omega \geq 0$ and $\beta(\left\{ 3 \pi/2 \right\}) = A + u_0 \cdot p_\omega \geq 0$ is the unique solution.

We now use [[20. Normal angles#^cor-supported-gauss-measure]] on the measure $\beta$ extended on the set $\Pi$. There is a unique convex body $K$ up to translation so that $\mathbf{n}(K) \subseteq \Pi$ (see [[20. Normal angles#^def-convex-set-support]]) and $\beta_K|_{\Pi} = \beta$. Since the equations in the theorem statement match with the formula in [[10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-width]] with angles $t = \omega, \pi/2$, the width of $K$ along the directions $u_\omega$ and $v_0$ are equal to 1. Since $\mathbf{n}(K) \subseteq \Pi$, the convex body $K$ satisfies the second condition of cap in [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-cap]] with $\Theta = [0, \omega]$ already. Now we only need to translate $K$ so that it satisfies the second condition of cap in [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-cap]]. If $\omega = \pi/2$, we only need $\beta_K(\pi/2) = 1$ for $K$ to be a cap in $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$, so such cap $K$ is unique up to horizontal translation. If $\omega < \pi/2$, we need both $\beta_K(\pi/2) = \beta_K(\omega) = 1$ so such cap $K$ exists uniquely among translations. □