A main difficulty of showing 
of [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity]] are chosen to guarantee that the closed curve $\Gamma$ formed by the trajectory of the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and either the segment connecting $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ (if $\omega=\pi/2$) or two segments connecting $\mathbf{x}_{K}(\pi/2)$, $(0, 0)$, and $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is a Jordan curve. 

We now define the quadratic functional upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ of the area $\mathcal{A}$ on the cap space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. We first define the _curve area functional_ of an arbitrary curve $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [planar-cross-product].__ For two points $(a, b), (c, d) \in \mathbb{R}^2$, denote their cross product as $(a, b) \times (c, d) = ad - bc \in \mathbb{R}$. ^def-planar-cross-product

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any rectifiable curve equipped with a parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. Write $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t))$. Define the _curve area functional_ $I(\mathbf{x})$ of $\Gamma$ as the following. ^def-curve-area-functional
$$
I(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t) dy(t) - y(t) dx(t)
$$
> First, note that the value of $I(\mathbf{x})$ does not change even if we take a different parametrization of the curve $\Gamma$. Note also that $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is rectifiable so is of bounded variation. So the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d \mathbf{x}(t) = (dx(t), dy(t))$ exists and the integral is well-defined. Also, write $I(p, q)$ for the area functional of the line segment $\mathbf{x}$ connecting point $p$ to $q$. Then we have $I(p, q) = 1/2 \cdot (p \times q)$.

If $\mathbf{x}$ is closed, $I(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$. If $\mathbf{x}$ is a Jordan curve, it measures the exact area enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$ with the sign depending on the orientation of $\mathbf{x}$ by Green's theorem. In general where $\mathbf{x}$ might not be closed, $I(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region bounded by the line segment connecting origin and $\mathbf{x}(a)$, the curve $\mathbf{x}$, and then the line segment connecting $\mathbf{x}(b)$ and the origin in order. Note that if $\gamma$ is the join of two curves $\alpha$ and $\beta$ then $I(\gamma) = I(\alpha) + I(\beta)$; this will useful in decomposing the area enclosed by the join of multiple curves.

Using the curve area functional, we can define our first upper bound of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ as the following.

> __Definition [a1].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, define $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - I(\mathbf{x}_K)$. Note that $\mathbf{x}_K$ is both left and right [[03. Space of Caps#^def-inner-corner-deriv|differentiable]], so it is absolutely continuous and the value $I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is well-defined. ^def-a1



The curve area functional of a convex curve can be expressed in terms of support function and boundary measure.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-area].__ Let $\mathbf{k}$ be any convex curve with normal angles in $[t_1, t_2]$. Then the following holds: ^thm-boundary-measure-area
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{k}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{[t_1, t_2]}p_{\mathbf{k}}(t)\,\beta_\mathbf{k}(dt)
$$


Assuming the weak injectivity hypothesis, $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$.

> __Theorem [a1-is-upper-bound].__ For any maximum monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ satisfying the conditions of the [[05. Definition#^con-injectivity|injectivity hypothesis]], we have $|S| = \mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K)$. ^thm-a1-is-upper-bound

_Proof._ We have $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ by [[yy. Monotone Sofas#^thm-niche-in-cap]]. So it is sufficient to show that $I(\mathbf{x}_K) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. We construct a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ consisting of the following paths.

- The line segment $s_R$ from the point $(0, 0)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$
- The path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$
- The line segment $s_L$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega)$ to the point $(0, 0)$.

First observe that the line segments $s_L$ and $s_R$ are contained in the bottom sides $l(\omega) \cap P_\omega$ and $l(\pi/2) \cap P_\omega$ of $P_\omega$ respectively. Each path is injective, and so the joined path $\Gamma$ formed by joining all the three paths is a Jordan curve by [[05. Definition#^con-injectivity]]. So by [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-jordan-curve]], $\Gamma$ divides the plane into an unbounded region and a bounded region. Let $\mathcal{N}_0$ be the bounded open region. We observe that $\Gamma$ is oriented counterclockwise by applying [[yy. Geometric Results#^lem-orientation]] with the endpoints of $s_R$. As $\Gamma$ is oriented clockwise, we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = I(\Gamma)$, and as $I(\Gamma) = I(s_R) + I(\mathbf{x}_K) + I(s_L) = I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = I(\mathbf{x}_K)$.

Next we show $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ which closes the goal as $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| \leq \left| \mathcal{N}(K) \right|$. Take any $p \in \mathcal{N}_0$. Take the ray $r = R_p(\pi/2)$ starting from $p$ upwards, then it should cross some point in the path $\Gamma$. As $\Gamma$ is inside $F_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq F_\omega$ and so $p \in F_\omega$ as well. As $p$ is in $F_\omega$ and $p$ itself is not in $\Gamma$, we can show that the intersection point of $r$ and $\Gamma$ should be in the path $\mathbf{x}_K$. As some inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the hallway $L_K(t)$ is on the ray $r$, and the set $Q^-_K(t)$ is closed in the downwards direction, the point $p$ should be in $P_\omega \cap Q^-_K(t)$ and so in $\mathcal{N}(K)$. This shows $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ and we're done. □

> __Remark [a1-is-upper-bound].__ The proof of [[#^thm-a1-is-upper-bound]] also depends on the fact that the set $Q^-_K(t)$ carved out by the hallway is closed in the downwards direction. That is, it relies heavily on the fact that the hallway is rotating by 90 degrees. ^rem-a1-is-upper-bound

> __Definition [function-measure-dot].__ For any measurable function $f$ on $X$ and a measure $\beta$ on $K$, denote the integral $\int_{x \in X} f(x)\,\beta(dx)$ as $\left< f, \beta \right>_{X}$. ^def-function-measure-dot

We move on to observing that $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K$. Moreover, we express $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ as $\left< p_K, \iota_K \right>$ where $p_K$ and $\iota_K$ are convex-linear with respect to $K$. 
We present a useful formula to work with $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$.

> __Theorem [convex-area].__ For any convex body $K$, we have $|K| = \frac{1}{2} \left< p_K, \beta_K \right>_{S^1}$. ^thm-convex-area

> __Theorem [quadratic-variation].__ Let $\mathcal{K}$ be any convex space. Assume that a function is equivalent to  ... ^thm-quadratic-variation

> __Definition [i-cap].__ For any cap $K$, define $i_K : J_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = h_K^+(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = g^+_K(t) - 1$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^def-i-cap

> __Definition [cap-corner-curve-functional].__ Let $K$ be any cap. Define $i_K : J \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = h_K^+(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = g^+_K(t) - 1$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. Define $\iota_K$ as the measure on $J$ derived from $i_K$. ^def-cap-corner-curve-functional

> __Proposition [cap-corner-curve-functional].__ Let $\phi_1, \phi_2$ be two angles. Define $I$ as a subinterval of $J$. Then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K|_I) = \left< p_K, \iota_K \right>_{I}$ ^pro-cap-corner-curve-functional

> __Corollary [convex-area-variation].__ For any convex bodies $K_1, K_2$, let $K = (1 - \lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ be the linear interpolation between them. Then we have the following. ^cor-convex-area-variation
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} |K| = \int_{S^1} (p_{K_2}(t) - p_{K_1}(t)) \, \beta_{K_1}(dt)
$$



> __Theorem [a1-formula].__ The following equation holds. ^thm-a1-formula
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{J_\omega} p_K(t) \beta_K(dt) - 
\frac{1}{2} \int_{[0, \omega]} \mathbf{x}_K(t) \times \mathbf{v}_K(t) dt
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ This is a combination of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]] and [[yy. Geometric Results#^def-curve-area-functional]] applied to the definition of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$. □

Observe that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a quadratic functional.

> __Corollary [a1-quadratic].__ $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^cor-a1-quadratic

_Proof._ Use [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]] and [[03. Space of Caps#^lem-quadratic-functional]] on the equation in [[#^thm-a1-formula]]. Note that for a function $f$ and measure $\mu$, the value $\int f \,d \mu$ is a bilinear form of $f$ and $\mu$. □

## Arm Lengths and Inner Corners of Tangent Hallways

We define the _arm lengths_ of tangent hallways of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ For any $t \in \Theta$, let $g_K^+(t)$ be the real value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^+_K(t) + g_K^+(t) v_t$. Let $g_K^-(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = A^-_K(t) + g_K^-(t) v_t$. Let $h_K^+(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^+_K(t) + h_K^+(t) u_t$. Let $h_K^-(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^-_K(t) + h_K^-(t) u_t$. ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length

It turns out that when $\Theta = [0, \omega]$, the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ on $\Theta$ is both left and right differentiable. Also, the differentiation can be expressed in terms of the arm lengths of $K$.

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the right derivative of the outer and inner corner $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ exists for any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^+ \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^+(t) u_t + h_K^+(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^+(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, $\mathbf{v}_K^- (t)$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \omega$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^- \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^-(t) u_t + h_K^-(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^-(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^-(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> In particular, both $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$ are Lipschitz.

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$. Take any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We simplify $\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{y}(s) - \mathbf{y}(t)) / \delta$. Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$ and $A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_s$. Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t).
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with first equation then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. Observe that $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$. We get
$$ (\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot u_t  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = - g^+(t)$$
as $g^+(t) = (\mathbf{y}(t) - A^+(t)) \cdot v_t$. A similar argument can be applied to show $(\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = h^+(t)$ and thus the first equation of the theorem. The right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ comes from $\mathbf{x}_K(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - u_t - v_t$. A symmetric argument calculates the left derivative of the outer and inner corner.

Observe that $g_K^{\pm}$ and $h_K^{\pm}$ are bounded by the diameter of $K$. So both $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$ has left and right differentiation bounded by an absolute constant, so they are Lipschitz. □