In this section, we invoke calculus of variation on $\mathcal{A}_1$. 

Convex-bilinear form. 

Take the vector space part of the quadratic functional of $\mathcal{A}_1$. Up to linear difference, we show that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is equal to  $\left< p_K, \iota_K \right>$ for some $\iota_K$ linear with respect to $K$. This amounts to setting up the differential equation that Romik has set up in his simplified derivation of Gerver's sofa. It measures the effective side lengths.

General form: if $f(K) = \left< p_K, q_K \right> + r_K$, where $p_K$, $q_K$ are convex-linear, then the variation is $\left< p_{K_1} - p_{K_2}, q_K \right>$.





_Proof._ Define the following for two convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$.
$$
V(K_1, K_2) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{S^1}p_{K_1}(t)\,\beta_{K_2}(dt)
$$
By [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure-area]] we have $V(K, K)$ equal to the area $|K|$ of $K$ for any $K$, and by [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]] $V(K_1, K_2)$ is multilinear with respect to each variable. So $V(K_1, K_2)$ is the mixed volume [[@sangwine-yagerMixedVolumes1993]] of $K_1$ and $K_2$ (say, because $2V(K_1, K_2) = |K_1 + K_2| - |K_1| - |K_2|$). By multilinearlity and reflexivity of the mixed volume $V$, for $K = (1 - \lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} |K| & = \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} V(K, K) =  \\
& = \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} (1-\lambda)^2 V(K_1, K_1) + 2 \lambda (1 - \lambda) V(K_1, K_2) + \lambda^2 V(K_2, K_2)  \\
& = - 2 V(K_1, K_1) + 2 V(K_1, K_2)  \\
& = \int_{S^1} (p_{K_2}(t) - p_{K_1}(t)) \, \beta_{K_1}(dt)
\end{align*}
$$
□

As $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a convex function, any local maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_1$ is also a global maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_1$. Now with [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-variation-maximizer]], it suffices to find some $K_1$ so that for any $K_2$ and $K = (1 - \lambda)K_1 + \lambda K_2$ for $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, we have the calculus of variation $\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1(K) = 0$.

> __Definition [i-cap].__ For any cap $K$, define $i_K : J_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = h_K^+(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = g^+_K(t) - 1$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^def-i-cap
 
> __Theorem [variation-a1].__ Let $K_1$ and $K_2$ be two caps in $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. Define $K= (1-\lambda)K_1 + \lambda K_2$ as the interpolation between $K_1$ and $K_2$ with $0 \leq \lambda \leq 1$. Then we have the following calculation. ^thm-variation-a1
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1(K)
= \int_{t \in J_\omega} (p_{K_2} (t) - p_{K_1}(t)) (\beta_{K_1} (dt) - i_{K_1}(t) dt)
$$

_Proof._ We start from [[00. Definition#^thm-a1-formula]].
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{A}_1(K) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{J_\omega} p_K(t) \beta_K(dt) - 
\frac{1}{2} \int_{[0, \omega]} \mathbf{x}_K(t) \times \mathbf{x}'_K(t) dt
\end{align*}
$$

By applying [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure-area-variation]] to the first term and applying [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-variation-curve]] to the second term, we reach the following.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1(K)
= \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} (p_{K_2} (t) - p_{K_1}(t)) \beta_{K_1} (dt) - 
\int_0^\omega (\mathbf{x}_{K_2} - \mathbf{x}_{K_1}) \times d\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t)
$$
Let's focus on the second term more. We write each vector as linear combinations of $u_t$ and $v_t$. This follows from definition of $\mathbf{x}_K$.
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_2} - \mathbf{x}_{K_1} = (p_{K_2} (t) - p_{K_1} (t)) u_t + 
(p_{K_2} (t + \pi / 2) - p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2))) v_t
$$
And [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] gives the following almost everywhere.
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_1} = \mathbf{v}_{K_1}(t) = -(g_{K_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot u_t + (h_{K_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot v_t
$$
So the cross-product $(\mathbf{x}_{K_2} - \mathbf{x}_{K_1}) \times \mathbf{x}'_{K_1}$ is equal to the following almost everywhere.
$$
(h_K^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_2} (t) - p_{K_1} (t)) + (g_K^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_2} (t + \pi / 2) - p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2)))
$$
Using [[#^def-i-cap]], the second integral can be expressed more concisely.
$$
\int_0^\omega (\mathbf{x}_{K_2} - \mathbf{x}_{K_1}) \times d\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = 
\int_{t \in J_\omega} (p_{K_2} (t) - p_{K_1}(t)) i_{K_1}(t) dt
$$
We get the original equation by plugging this back to the equation for $\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1(K)$. □

Now we calculate for which $K_1$ is the right-hand side of the equation in [[#^thm-variation-a1]] is equal to zero. To do this, we have to find $K = K_1$ so that $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_{K_1}(t)dt$ on $J_\omega$ except for the points $t = \omega, \pi/2$. On the values $t = \omega, \pi/2$ we allow $\beta_{K_{1}}$ to have concentrated point measure. If $K_1$ satisfies this condition, then the equation in [[#^thm-variation-a1]] is equal to zero because $p_{K_1}$ and $p_{K_2}$ are both 1 on the values $t = \omega, \pi/2$. For derivation, we assume that $i_{K_1}$ is differentiable on the interior of $J_\omega$.

Computing the derivatives of arm lengths $g_{K_1}$ and $h_{K_1}$, we get the following using Leibniz integral rule. Here $0 < t < \omega$ is taken arbitrarily, and we use $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_{K_1}(t)dt$ to compute the boundary values in the Leibniz integral rule.
$$
\begin{align*}
g_{K_1}'(t) & = \frac{d}{dt} \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \cos \left( u - t \right) \, \beta(du) \\
& = -i_{K_1}(t) + \int_t^{t+\pi/2} \sin (u-t)\, \beta(du) = -i_{K_1}(t) + h_{K_1}(t) 
\end{align*}
$$
$$
\begin{align*}
h_{K_1}'(t) & = \frac{d}{dt} \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \sin \left( u - t \right) \, \beta(du) \\
& = i_{K_1}\left( t + \pi/2 \right) - \int_t^{t+\pi/2} \cos (u-t)\, \beta(du) = i_{K_1}(t + \pi/2) - g_{K_1}(t)
\end{align*}
$$
Putting back [[#^def-i-cap]], we obtain the following equations for $t \in (0, \omega)$.
$$
\begin{gather}
g'_{K_1}(t) = -h_{K_1}(t) + 1 + h_{K_1}(t) = 1 \\
h'_{K_1}(t) = g_{K_1}(t) - 1 - g_{K_1}(t) = -1
\end{gather}
$$
The boundary conditions are that we need the ledge heights to be equal to $g_{K_1}(0)=1$ and $h_{K_1}(\omega)=1$. So this gives formula $g_{K_1}(t) = 1 + t$ and $h_{K_1}(t) = 1 + (\omega-t)$. So $i_{K_1}(t) = (\omega-t)$ and $i_{K_1}(t+\pi/2) = t$, and this also gives the value of $\beta_{K_1}$ except for the point masses on $\omega$ and $\pi/2$. As the height $g_{K_1}(0)$ of the sofa has to be equal to 1, we have the following.
$$
\int_{t \in [0, \omega] } \cos \left( t \right) \, \beta_{K_1} (dt) = 1
$$
Computation then gives the following.
$$
\int_{t \in [0, \omega)} \cos (t) (\omega-t) \, dt + \cos(\omega) \beta_{K_1}(\{\omega\}) = 1 - \cos (\omega) + \cos (\omega) \beta_{K_1}(\left\{ \omega \right\}) = 1
$$
So consequently $\beta_{K_1}(\{\omega\}) = 1$ if $\omega < \pi/2$. By symmetry it is also that $\beta_{K_1}(\{\pi/2\}) = 1$ under the same assumption as well. This determines the boundary measure $\beta_{K_1}$ of $K_1$. The question then is whether such a boundary measure will indeed give rise to the cap $K_1$ such that $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_{K_1}(t)dt$ on $J_\omega$ except for the points $t = \omega, \pi/2$.

> __Definition [maximum-presofa-a1].__ For any rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the cap $K_1 \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ as the cap with boundary measure $\beta_{K_1}$ with support in $J_{\omega} \cup \left\{ \omega + \pi, 3 \pi/2 \right\}$ satisfying the following conditions on $J_{\omega}$. ^def-maximum-presofa-a1
> 
> - $\beta_{K_1}(\{\omega\}) = \beta_{K_1}(\{\pi/2\}) = 1$ if $\omega < \pi/2$, or $\beta_{K_1}\left( \left\{ \pi/2 \right\} \right) = 2$ if $\omega = \pi/2$.
> - $\beta_{{K_1}}(dt) = (\omega -t)dt$ on $t \in [0, \omega)$ and $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = (t - \pi/2)dt$ on $t \in (\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$.
> - If $\omega=\pi/2$, $K_1$ is symmetric along the $y$-axis.

_Proof._ We use [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]] to construct such a cap $K_1$. Calculating $\int_{t \in [0, \omega] } \cos \left( t \right) \, \beta_{K_1} (dt)$ gives 1 like the computation above. Likewise, calculating $\int_{t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt)$ also gives 1 by a similar computation. If $\omega = \pi/2$, the construction of [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]] gives a freedom of translating $K_1$ along the $x$-axis. Using the symmetry of $\beta_{K_1}$, position $K_1$ so that it is symmetric along the $y$-axis. □

> __Theorem [maximum-presofa-a1].__ The cap $K_1 \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ attains the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$. ^thm-maximum-presofa-a1

_Proof._ By [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-variation-maximizer]] and [[#^thm-variation-a1]] it suffice to check that $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_{K_1}(t)dt$ on $J_\omega$ except for the points $t = \omega, \pi/2$. Take any $t \in (0, \omega)$, then we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
g^+_K(t) & = \int_{u \in (t, t+\pi/2]} \cos (u-t)\, \beta(du) \\
& = \cos(\omega - t) + \cos(\pi/2 - t) + \int_{t}^{\omega} \cos(u-t)(\omega-u)\,du + \int_{\pi/2}^{t + \pi/2} \cos(u-t)(u - \pi/2)\,du  \\
& = 1 + t
\end{align*}
$$
Note that this computation holds for both cases $\omega < \pi/2$ and $\omega = \pi/2$. So on the domain $t \in (\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$ the measure $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = (t - \pi/2) dt$ is equal to $i_K(t) dt = (g^+_K(t - \pi/2) - 1) dt$. Similarly, we can also check $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_K(t) dt$ on any $t \in [0, \omega)$. □

> __Theorem [maximum-presofa-a1-area].__ The maximum value $\mathcal{A}_1(K_1)$ is $1 + \omega^2/2$.  ^thm-maximum-presofa-a1-area

_Proof._ If $\omega = \pi/2$, let $p_\omega = (0, 1)$. Let $\tau = (\pi/2-\omega)/2$. Then we have $p_\omega = (\tan(\tau), 1)$ for any angle $\omega \leq \pi/2$. Note that $K_1$ has mirror symmetry along the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $p_\omega$.

Let us compute the value of $p_{K_1}(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. 
$$
\begin{align*}
p_{K_1}(t) - p_\omega \cdot u_t & = (A^-_{K_1}(t) - p_\omega) \cdot u_t =  \\
& = \sin(\omega - t) + \int_{t_0 \in [t, \omega] } (\omega - t_0) \sin \left( t_0 - t \right) \, dt_{0} \\
& = \omega - t
\end{align*}
$$
So $p_{K_1}(t) = \omega - t + p_{\omega} \cdot u_t$ on $t \in [0, \omega]$. By symmetry, $p_{K_1}(t) = t - \pi/2 + p_\omega \cdot u_t$ on $t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$. Now use the mirror symmetry to calculate half the area of $K_1$.
$$
\begin{align*}
\frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} p_{K_1}(t) \, \beta(dt) & = 
\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} \left( \omega - t + p_\omega \cdot u_t \right)  (\omega-t) \, dt \\
& = \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{2} \left( \omega^3 / 3 + p_\omega \cdot (1 - \cos(\omega), \omega - \sin(\omega)) \right) 
\end{align*}
$$
So we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
|K_1| & = 1 + \omega^3 / 3 + p_\omega \cdot (1 - \cos \omega, \omega - \sin \omega) \\
& = \omega^3/3 + \omega + \cot\left( \pi/4 + \omega/2 \right)
\end{align*}
$$

Next, we compute the area of the niche $I(\mathbf{x}_{K_1})$. We have 
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = (p_{K_1}(t) - 1)u_t + (p_{K_1}(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t
$$
and
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_1} = -(g_{K_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot u_t + (h_{K_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot v_t = 
- t \cdot u_t + (\omega - t) \cdot v_t
$$
so
$$
\begin{align*}
I(\mathbf{x}_{K_1}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (p_{K_1}(t) - 1)(\omega - t) + (p_{K_1}(t+\pi/2) - 1) t \, dt  \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (\omega - t + p_{\omega} \cdot u_t - 1) (\omega - t) \, dt + 
\frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (t + p_{\omega} \cdot v_t - 1) t \, dt \\
& = \omega^3 / 3 - \omega^2 / 2 + (-1 + \omega + \cot\left( \pi/4 + \omega/2 \right) )
\end{align*}
$$
Finally, we compute $\mathcal{A}_1(K_1) = |K_1| - I(\mathbf{x}_{K_1}) = 1 + \omega^2 / 2$. □

> __Corollary [sofa-a1-upper-bound].__ Under the assumption of injectivity hypothesis, $1 + \pi^2/8 = 2.2337\dots$ is an upper bound of the sofa area. ^cor-sofa-a1-upper-bound

_Proof._ By [[00. Definition#^thm-a1-is-upper-bound]], [[10. Calculus of Variation#^thm-maximum-presofa-a1]] and [[10. Calculus of Variation#^thm-maximum-presofa-a1-area]]. □
