The _surface area measure_ $\beta_K$ of a convex body $K$ is a measure on $S^1$ that will be a key ingredient in our calculus of variation. Essentially, $\beta_K$ measures the side lengths of $K$. If $K$ is a convex polygon, then $\beta_K$ is a discrete measure such that the measure at point $t$ is the length of the edge $e_K(t)$. If $K$ has a smooth boundary such that the tangent line $l_K(t)$ touches $K$ at a single point $v_K(t)$, then we have $\beta_K(dt) = R(t) dt$ where $R(t) = \left\lVert v'(t) \right\rVert$ is the radius of curvature of the boundary of $K$ at the point $v(t)$.

The surface area measure $\beta_K$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$ (e.g. from (5.27), p284 of [[@schneider_2013]], and that in dimension $n=2$ the mixed area measure is equal to the surface area measure). Note that for any measurable function $f$ on a space $X$ and a measure $\beta$ on $K$, we denote the integral $\int_{x \in X} f(x)\,\beta(dx)$ as $\left< f, \beta \right>_{X}$. We have ^eqn-mixed-area
$$
V(K_1, K_2) = \left< p_{K_1}, \beta_{K_2} \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$
where $V(K_1, K_2)$ is the mixed volume of arbitrary convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$ (Theorem 5.1.7, p280 of [[@schneider_2013]]), so we have ^eqn-area
$$
|K| = \left< p_K, \beta_K \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$
for any convex body $K$ in particular. Thus the area $|K|$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is a quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

Gauss-Minkowski theorem states that any convex set $K$, up to translation, corresponds one-to-one to a measure $\beta = \beta_K$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1}u_t\,\beta(dt) = 0$. Using this correspondence, we establish a correspondence between any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and its surface area measure $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-cap].__ For any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$, the surface area measure $\beta_K$ of $K$ on $S^1$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ and satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-measure-cap
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$

_Proof._ $\beta_K$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ by (TODO: some theorem in appendix). We have $\left( A^+_K(\omega) - A^-_K(0) \right) \cdot v_0 = 1$ because for a cap $K$, the point $A_K^+(\omega)$ is on the line $y=1$ and $A_K^-(0)$ is on the line $y=0$. So by (TODO: some theorem in appendix), we get the first equation. The second equation can be obtained by a symmetric argument. □

> __Theorem [cap-from-boundary-measure].__ Conversely to [[#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]], let $\beta$ be a measure on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$ that satisfies the following equations. ^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta(dt) = 1
$$
> Then the followings hold.
> 
> - If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$. This is unique up to horizontal translation: all the other caps $K'$ satisfying the same condition is a horizontal translation of $K$.
> - If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$.

_Proof._ We first observe that there is a unique extension of $\beta$ on the set $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ such that $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$. Let $A = \int_{t \in \Theta}\sin(t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta} v_t \,\beta(dt) = - A u_0 + v_0$ by the first condition. Likewise, if we let $B = \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi / 2} \sin(\omega + \pi/2 - t)\,\beta(dt) \geq 0$, then we have $\int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2}v_t\,\beta(dt) = B v_\omega - u_\omega$. By solving for $\int_{t \in \Pi} v_t \, \beta(dt) = 0$, we get the unique extension of $\beta$ on the points $\pi + \omega$ and $3\pi/2$ as the followings.

- If $\omega = \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = \beta(\left\{ 3\pi / 2 \right\}) = \int_{t \in \Theta \cup \Theta + \pi/2} \sin(t) \, \beta(dt) \geq 0$
- If $\omega < \pi/2$, then $\beta(\left\{ \pi + \omega \right\}) = B + v_\omega \cdot p_\omega > 0$ and $\beta(\left\{ 3 \pi/2 \right\}) = A + u_0 \cdot p_\omega \geq 0$.

Now we use (TODO: some theorem in appendix). If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ up to translation so that $\beta_K$ has support in $\Pi$ and $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$. The equations on $\beta$ imply that the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $v_0$ is 1. So among all possible translations of $K$, the body that is a cap ($p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$) is unique up to horizontal translation. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique convex body $K$ such that $\beta_K$ has support in $\Pi$, $\beta_K = \beta$ on $\Pi$, and $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$. The equations on $\beta$ is equivalent to that $K$ has width 1 in the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$. So this $K$ is a cap. □


(express arm lengths in surface area measure)