In this section, we calculate the directional derivative $D\mathcal{A}_1(K; -)$ of $\mathcal{A}_1$ at any $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$. As $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = \left| K \right| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$, we calculate the directional derivative of $|K|$ and $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ separately. We have the following general result for the area $|K|$ of any convex body $K$.

> __Theorem [convex-body-area-variation].__ Let $K$ and $K'$ be arbitrary convex bodies. Then we have the following. ^thm-convex-body-area-variation
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} \left| (1-\lambda) K + \lambda K' \right|  = \left< p_{K'} - p_K , \beta_K \right>_{S^1} 
$$

_Proof._ For any convex body $K$ we have $|K| = V(K, K)$ where $V$ is the mixed volume of two planar convex bodies. So by applying [[02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $|K| = V(K, K)$ and using that $V(K, K') = V(K', K)$, we have the following.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} \left| (1-\lambda) K + \lambda K' \right| = 2V(K', K) - 2V(K, K)  
$$
By applying [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-surface-area-measure-area]] we get the result. □

We also have the following general result for the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ of any curve $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ be two rectifiable curves. Then the following holds. ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2) = \left[ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))  \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t) \right] +  \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a), \mathbf{x}_1(a))
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on general rectifiable curves $\mathbf{x}_1$ and $\mathbf{x}_2$. Apply [[02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get the following.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} 2\mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1) - 2 \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_1)
$$
Using the integration by parts, we have the following.
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t) = \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}_2(t) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)
$$
Plug this back in to get the result. □

To compute the directional derivative of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ from $\mathbf{x}=\mathbf{x}_K$ to $\mathbf{x}=\mathbf{x}_{K'}$ for caps $K, K' \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we need to calculate the left and right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ with respect to $t$.

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the right derivative of the outer and inner corner $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ exists for any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^+ \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^+(t) u_t + h_K^+(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^+(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, $\mathbf{v}_K^- (t)$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \omega$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^- \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -g_K^-(t) u_t + h_K^-(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(g_K^-(t) - 1) u_t + (h_K^-(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$. Take any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We simplify $\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{y}(s) - \mathbf{y}(t)) / \delta$. Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$ and $A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_s$. Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t).
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with first equation then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. Observe that $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$. We get
$$ (\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot u_t  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = - g^+(t)$$
as $g^+(t) = (\mathbf{y}(t) - A^+(t)) \cdot v_t$. A similar argument can be applied to show $(\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = h^+(t)$ and thus the first equation of the theorem. The right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ comes from $\mathbf{x}_K(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - u_t - v_t$. A symmetric argument calculates the left derivative of the outer and inner corner. □

> __Definition [i-cap].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$, define $i_K : [0, \pi) \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = h_K^+(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = g^+_K(t) - 1$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/2)$. Define $\iota_K$ as the measure on $[0, \pi]$ derived from the density function $i_K$. That is, $\iota_K(dt) = i_K(t) dt$. ^def-i-cap

[[15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]] is motivated by the following lemma.

> __Lemma [i-cap].__ Let $t_1, t_2 \in [0, \pi/2]$ such that $t_1 < t_2$ be arbitrary. Let $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ be arbitrary. Then the following holds. ^lem-i-cap
$$
\int_{t_1}^{t_2} \mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_{K_2} (t) = \left< p_{K_1} - 1, \iota_{K_2} \right>_{[t_1, t_2] \cup [t_1 + \pi/2, t_2 + \pi/2]} 
$$

_Proof._ By [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]], the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_{K_2}(t)$ with respect to $t$ exists almost everywhere and is the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_2}(t) = -(g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) v_t
$$
Meanwhile, we have the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) u_t + 
(p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) v_t
$$
So the cross-product $\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \times \mathbf{x}_{K_2}'(t)$ is equal to the following almost everywhere.
$$
(h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1)
$$
Now the left-hand side is equal to
$$
\int_{t_1}^{t_2} (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) \, dt
$$
and by [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]] this integral is equal to $\left< p_{K_1} - 1, \iota_{K_2} \right>_{[t_1, t_2] \cup [t_1 + \pi/2, t_2 + \pi/2]}$. □

> __Theorem [variation-a1].__ Let $K_1$ and $K_2$ be two caps in $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$. Then we have the following. ^thm-variation-a1
$$
D\mathcal{A}_1(K_1; K_2) = \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1((1 - \lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2)
= \left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1}, \beta_{K_1} - \iota_{K_1} \right>_{[0, \pi]}
$$

_Proof._ We start from $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$. By applying [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-convex-body-area-variation]] to the first term and applying [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-curve-area-variation]] to the second term, we get the following.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1(K)
= \left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1}, \beta_{K_1} \right>_{[0, \pi]} - 
\int_0^{\pi/2} (\mathbf{x}_{K_2}(t) - \mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t)) \times d\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t)
$$
Apply [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^lem-i-cap]] to the second term twice. □

We examine the intuitive meaning of [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]] in depth before moving on to the rigorous details of maximizing $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ with respect to $K$. In Theorem 2 (ODE3) of [[@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]], Romik essentially computes the following calculus of variation. Assume for a moment that $S$ is a monotone sofa of rotation angle $\pi/2$ with cap $K$, such that the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is exactly the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$. Assume that our cap $K$ has differentiable $A_K(t) = A_K^{\pm}(t)$,  $C_K(t) = C_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ for every $t \in (0, \pi/2)$. Take an arbitrary angle $t$. Fix small positive $\delta$ and $\epsilon$. We pertube $S$ to a new sofa $S'$ as the following.

The monotone sofa $S = H \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq u \leq \pi/2} L_K(u)$ is the intersection of rotating hallways $L_K(t)$. For every $t' \in [0, \pi/2]$, define a new family of rotating hallways $L'(t')$. For every $t' \in [t, t + \delta]$, let $L'(t') = L_S(t') + \epsilon u_t$, and for every other $t'$, let $L'(t') = L_S(t')$. That is, we move $L_S(t')$ in the direction of $\epsilon u_t$ for only $t' \in [t, t + \delta]$. Define $S' = H \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq u \leq \pi/2} L'(u)$, then $S'$ is a slight perturbation of $S$. By [[07. Tangent hallway#^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection]], $S'$ is also a moving sofa modulo that $S'$ is connected. Comparing $S$ and $S'$, some area is gained near $A_K(t)$ and some area is lost near $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$. The gain near $A_K(t)$ is approximately $\epsilon \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t) \right\rVert$ as the shape of the gain is approximately a rectangle of sides $\delta A_K'(t)$ and $\epsilon u_t$. The loss near $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is $\epsilon \delta \mathbf{x}'(t) \cdot v_t$ as the shape of the loss is approximately a parallelogram of sides $\delta \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and $\epsilon u_t$.

Now observe that this total gain of $\epsilon \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t) \right\rVert - \epsilon \delta \mathbf{x}'(t) \cdot v_t$ is captured in [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]]. The perturbation from $K$ to $K'$ can be described as $p_{K'} = p_K + \epsilon 1_{[t, t + \delta]}$ in terms of their support functions. Correspondingly, the value $\left< p_{K'} - p_{K}, \beta_{K_1}  \right>_{[0, \pi]} = \epsilon \beta_{K_1}((t, t + \delta])$ is approximately $\epsilon \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t) \right\rVert$, which is equal to the gain near $A_K(t)$. The value $\left< p_{K'} - p_{K}, \iota_{K_1}  \right>_{[0, \pi]} = \epsilon \iota_{K_1}((t, t + \delta])$, by [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] and [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]], is approximately $\epsilon \delta \mathbf{x}_{K}'(t) \cdot v_t$ which is equal to the loss near $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$. A similar observation can be made when we pertube for every $t' \in [t, t + \delta]$, $L'(t') = L_S(t') + \epsilon v_t$.

To summarize, $(p_{K'} - p_{K})(t)$ and $(p_{K'} - p_{K})(t + \pi/2)$ measures the movement of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ along the direction $u_t$ and $v_t$ respectively. Then $\beta_{K}(t)$ and $\beta_K(t + \pi/2)$ respectively measures the differential side lengths of the boundary of $K$ near $A_K(t)$ and $C_K(t)$ respectively. Likewise, $\iota_K(t)$ and $\iota_K(t + \pi/2)$ measures the component of $\mathbf{x}'(t)$ in direction of $v_t$ and $-u_t$ respectively.