We now solve for the maximizer $K = K_{\omega, 1}$ of our concave quadratic upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$. We do this _a priori_ by solving for the cap $K$ that satisfies $\beta_{K} = \iota_{K}$ on the set $J_\omega \setminus \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. Once we find such $K$, then it happens that the directional derivative $D\mathcal{A}_1(K; K') = 0$ for every other cap $K'$ by [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]] because $p_{K'}(\omega) = p_K(\omega) = p_{K'}(\pi/2) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$. Then by [[02. Calculus of variation#^thm-quadratic-variation]] the cap $K$ attains the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$.

As we have seen in the previous subsection, the equation $\beta_{K} = \iota_{K}$ on the set $J_\omega \setminus \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$ can be compared to the local optimality equation (ODE3) in Theorem 2 of [[@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]]. However, unlike [[@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]] which solved the equation for the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$, we will solve for the arm lengths $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $h_K^{\pm}(t)$ to find $K$. This will lead to a much simpler set of differential equations to solve. From now on, let $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ be an arbitrary cap with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$.

The following theorem shows that under sufficient conditions, we don't need to differentiate $g_K^+(t)$ and $g_K^+(t)$ (resp. $h_K^+(t)$ and $h_K^-(t)$) and also can calculate the derivatives of $g_K$ and $h_K$ in terms of $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [arm-length-derivative].__ Assume that there is a open interval $U$ in $(0, \pi/2)$ and a continuous function $f : U \cup \left( U + \pi/2 \right) \to \mathbb{R}$ such that the measure $\beta_K$ has density function $f$ on $U \cup (U + \pi/2)$. That is, we have $\beta_K(X) = \int_X f(x)\,dx$ for every Borel subset $X \subseteq U \cup (U + \pi/2)$. Then we have $g_K^+(t) = g_K^-(t)$ and $h_K^+(t) = h_K^-(t)$ for every $t \in U$ so the function $g_K(t)$ and $h_K(t)$ are well-defined on $t \in U$. Moreover, $g_{K}'(t) = -f(t) + h_{K}(t)$ and $h_K'(t) = f(t + \pi/2) - g_K(t)$ for every $t \in U$. ^thm-arm-length-derivative

_Proof._ We have $g_K(t) = g_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $h_K(t) = h_K^{\pm}(t)$ for all $t \in U$ by [[01. Definition of A1#^pro-arm-length-unsigned]]. To calculate the derivatives, first apply [[10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] to [[01. Definition of A1#^pro-cap-tangent-arm-length]] to get the following equations for all $t \in U$.
$$
g_{K}(t) = \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \cos \left( u - t \right) \beta_K(du)
$$
$$
h_{K}(t) = \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \sin \left( u - t \right) \beta_K(du)
$$
Differentiate them at $t \in U$ using Leibniz integral rule to complete the proof.
$$
g_{K}'(t) = -f(t) + \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \sin (u-t)\, \beta_K(du) = -f(t) + h_{K}(t) 
$$
$$
h_{K}'(t) = f\left( t + \pi/2 \right) - \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \cos (u-t)\, \beta_K(du) = f(t + \pi/2) - g_{K}(t)
$$
□

This theorem is a converse of [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-arm-length-derivative]] that calculates $\beta_K$ from continuously differentiable $g_K$ and $h_K$.

> __Theorem [arm-length-derivative-converse].__ Assume there is a open interval $U$ in $(0, \pi/2)$ so that $g_K(t)$ and $h_K(t)$ are well-defined and continuously differentiable on $U$. Define the continous function $f$ on $U \cup (U + \pi/2)$ as $f(t) = h_K(t) - g_K'(t)$ and $f(t + \pi/2) = g_K(t) + h'_K(t)$ for all $t \in U$. Then the measure $\beta_K$ has density function $f$ on $U \cup (U + \pi/2)$. ^thm-arm-length-derivative-converse

_Proof._ By [[01. Definition of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]], $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ has continuous differentiation $-g_K(t) u_t + h_K(t) v_t$ on $t \in U$. So $A_K^{\pm}(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - g_K(t) u_t$ and $C_K^{\pm}(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - h_K(t) v_t$ are continuously differentiable on $t \in U$ too. Then by [[10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-differential]] the measure $\beta_K$ has a continuous density function $f_0$ on $U \cup (U + \pi/2)$, where $f_0(t) = A_K'(t) \cdot v_t$ and $f_0(t + \pi/2) = - C_K'(t) \cdot v_t$. Now by [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-arm-length-derivative]] we should have $f_0 = f$, completing the proof. □

Now we solve the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on any open set $(t_1, t_2) \cup (t_1 + \pi/2, t_2 + \pi/2)$ in terms of $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [balanced-ACx].__ Let $0 \leq t_1 < t_2 \leq \omega$ be two arbitrary angles. Let $U = (t_1, t_2)$ and $X = U \cup (U + \pi/2)$. Then the followings are equivalent. ^thm-balanced-ACx
> 
> 1. We have $\beta_{K} = \iota_{K}$ on the set $X$
> 2. We have $g_K(t) = a + t$ and $h_K(t) = b - t$ for some constants $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ on $t \in U$.

_Proof._ Assume (1) that $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on $X$. The measure of $\beta_K = \iota_K$ is zero for every point of $X$ by [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]]. So we have $g_K(t) = g^\pm_K(t)$ and $h_K(t) = h_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in U$ by [[01. Definition of A1#^pro-arm-length-unsigned]]. Also, $g_K(t)$, $h_K(t)$ are continuous with respect to $t \in U$ by [[01. Definition of A1#^cor-arm-length-continuity]]. Now since $\beta_K = \iota_K$ has the continuous density function $i_K$ on $X$, we can apply [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-arm-length-derivative]] to $K$. By applying so, we have
$$
\begin{gather}
g_{K}'(t) = -i_K(t) + h_{K}(t) = 1 \\
h_K'(t) = i_K(t + \pi/2) - g_K(t) = -1
\end{gather}
$$
on $t \in U$ and this immediately proves (2).

Now assume (2). By [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-arm-length-derivative-converse]] the measure $\beta_K$ should have density function $f(t) = b - t - 1$ and $f(t + \pi/2) = a + t + 1$ over all $t \in U$. This matches with the density function of $\iota_K$ in [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]], completing the proof of (1). □

We now solve for the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on the set $J_\omega \setminus \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$ by solving for $\beta_K$. Note that our derivation aims to not solve the equation completely, but to identify enough information of $K$ and define a single definite solution $K$ in the end. First, we should have $\beta_K(\left\{ 0 \right\}) = \beta_K(\left\{ \omega + \pi/2 \right\}) = 0$ because $0, \omega + \pi/2 \in J_\omega \setminus \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$ and $\iota_K$ have measure zero on every singleton. So $g_K(0)$ and $h_K(\omega)$ exist, and $g_K(0) = h_K(\omega) = 1$ as the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$ are one. So by [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-balanced-ACx]] with $t_1 = 0$ and $t_2 = \omega$ we should have $g_K(t) = t + 1$ and $h_K(t) = \omega - t + 1$ on the set $t \in (0, \omega)$. Now by [[15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]], the measure $\beta_K$ has density $\beta_K(dt) = (\omega - t) dt$ and $\beta_K(dt + \pi/2) = t dt$ on $t \in (0, \omega)$. It remains to find the values of $\beta_K$ on the points $\omega$ and $\pi/2$. The measure $\beta_K$ has to satisfy the equations in [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]]. Since we have calculations ^eqn-k1-conditions
$$
\begin{gather*}
\int_{t \in [0, \omega)} (\omega - t) \cos t  \, dt = 1 - \cos \omega \\
\int_{t \in (\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]} (t - \pi/2) \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, dt = 1 - \cos \omega
\end{gather*}
$$
we should have $\beta_K(\left\{ \omega \right\}) = \beta_K(\left\{ \pi/2 \right\}) = 1$ if $\omega < \pi/2$. Motivated by the calculations made here, we define the following candidate $K = K_{\omega, 1}$ 

> __Definition [maximum-presofa-a1].__ Define the cap $K = K_{\omega, 1} \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ as the unique cap with following boundary measure $\beta_{K}$. ^def-maximum-presofa-a1
> 
> 1. $\beta_{{K}}(dt) = (\omega -t)dt$ on $t \in [0, \omega)$ and $\beta_{K}(dt) = (t - \pi/2)dt$ on $t \in (\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$.
> 2. If $\omega < \pi/2$, $\beta_K(\left\{ \omega \right\}) = \beta_K(\left\{ \pi/2 \right\}) = 1$.
> 3. If $\omega = \pi/2$, $\beta_K(\left\{ \pi/2 \right\}) = 2$ and $v_K^+(\pi/2) = (-1, 1)$ and $v_K^-(\pi/2) = (1, 1)$.

Let us justify the unique existence of such $K_{\omega, 1}$. Observe that the two equations in [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]] are true by [[20. Maximizer of A1#^eqn-k1-conditions]]. So if $\omega < \pi/2$, the unique existence of $K_{\omega, 1}$ comes from the statement of [[03. A1 is quadratic#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]] immediately. If $\omega = \pi/2$, then the additional constraints $v_K^+(\pi/2) = (-1, 1)$ and $v_K^-(\pi/2) = (1, 1)$ fixes the single $K$ among all possible horizontal translates. So the uniqueness is also guaranteed. We now check backwards that the solution $K = K_{\omega, 1}$ indeed satisfies the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on $J_\omega \setminus \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$.

> __Theorem [maximum-presofa-a1].__ The cap $K_{\omega, 1}$ maximizes $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_{\omega} \to \mathbb{R}$. ^thm-maximum-presofa-a1

_Proof._ Let $K = K_{\omega, 1}$. First we verify that $K$ satisfies the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on $J_\omega \setminus \{\omega, \pi/2\}$. Because $\beta_K(\left\{ 0 \right\}) = \beta_K(\left\{ \omega + \pi/2 \right\}) = 0$, the values $g_K(0)$ and $h_K(\omega)$ exist. We have $g_K(0) = 1$ and $h_K(\omega) = 1$ as the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$ are one. Then by [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-arm-length-derivative]] we have
$$
\begin{align*}
g_{K}'(t) & = -\left( \omega - t \right)  + h_{K}(t) \\
h_K'(t) & = t - g_K(t)
\end{align*}
$$
on $t \in (0, \omega)$. This imply $g''_K(t) = 1 + t - g_K(t)$. 

□

> __Theorem [maximum-presofa-a1-area].__ The maximum value $\mathcal{A}_1(K_{\omega, 1})$ of $\mathcal{A}_1$ is $1 + \omega^2/2$.  ^thm-maximum-presofa-a1-area

_Proof._ Let $K = K_{\omega, 1}$. We will exploit the mirror symmetry of $K_{\omega, 1}$ along the line $l$ connecting $O$ to $o_\omega$. The line divides $K_{\omega, 1}$ into two pieces which are mirror images to each other. Call the piece on the right side of $l$ as $K_h$. Observe that the boundary of $K_h$ consists of the curve from $A_K^-(0)$ to $o_\omega$, and two segments from $O$ to $A_K^-(0)$ and $o_\omega$ respectively. So $p_{K}(t) = p_{K_h}(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$, and $\beta_K$ and $\beta_{K_h}$ agree on $[0, \omega)$. What is good about $K_h$ is that $\beta_{K_h}\left( \left\{ \omega \right\} \right) = 1$ no matter if either $\omega < \pi/2$ or $\omega = \pi/2$, unlike $\beta_K(\left\{ \omega \right\})$ that may change depending on $\omega$. We also have $|K| = 2 |K_h|$.

Now we compute the value of $p_{K}(t) = p_{K_h}(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. For the second equality, we are using [[10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-closed]] with $t_1 = t$ and $t_2 = \omega$.
$$
\begin{align*}
p_{K_h}(t) - o_\omega \cdot u_t & = (A^-_{K_h}(t) - o_\omega) \cdot u_t =  \\
& = \sin(\omega - t) + \int_{u \in [t, \omega] } (\omega - u) \sin \left( u - t \right) \, du \\
& = \omega - t
\end{align*}
$$
Now use the symmetry of $K$ along the line from $O$ to $o_\omega$ to calculate half the area of $K_1$.
$$
\begin{align*}
|K_h| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} p_{K_h}(t) \, \beta(dt) & = 
\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} \left( \omega - t + o_\omega \cdot u_t \right)  (\omega-t) \, dt \\
& = \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{2} \left( \omega^3 / 3 + o_\omega \cdot \int_{0}^{\omega} u_t (\omega - t)\, dt \right) 
\end{align*}
$$
Define $R := o_\omega \cdot \int_{0}^{\omega} u_t (\omega - t)\, dt$, and by multiplying by 2 we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
|K| & = 1 + \omega^3 / 3 + R
\end{align*}
$$

Next, we compute the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_{K})$. We have
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K}(t) = (p_{K}(t) - 1)u_t + (p_{K}(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t
$$
and
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K} = -(g_{K}^+(t) - 1) \cdot u_t + (h_{K}^+(t) - 1) \cdot v_t = 
- t \cdot u_t + (\omega - t) \cdot v_t
$$
so
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_{K}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (p_{K}(t) - 1)(\omega - t) + (p_{K}(t+\pi/2) - 1) t \, dt  \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (\omega - t + o_{\omega} \cdot u_t - 1) (\omega - t) \, dt + 
\frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (t + o_{\omega} \cdot v_t - 1) t \, dt \\
& = \omega^3 / 3 - \omega^2 / 2 + R
\end{align*}
$$
Finally, we compute $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_{K}) = 1 + \omega^2 / 2$. □

Now [[01. Definition of A1#^thm-a1-upper-bound]], [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-maximum-presofa-a1]], [[20. Maximizer of A1#^thm-maximum-presofa-a1-area]] imply [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]], and thus the main [[01. Moving sofa problem#^thm-main]].