We now solve for the maximizer $K = K_{\max, 1}$ of our concave quadratic upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$. We do this _a priori_ by solving for the cap $K$ where $\beta_{K} = \iota_{K}$ on the set $[0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$. Once the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ is solved, then for every other cap $K'$ we have $D\mathcal{A}_1(K; K') = 0$ by [[15. Directional Derivative#^thm-variation-a1]] as we have $\beta_{K} = \iota_{K}$ on $[0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$ and $p_{K'}(\pi/2) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$. Then by [[01. Space of Caps#^thm-quadratic-variation]] the cap $K$ attains the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$.

To solve for the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on $[0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$, we need some preparation. From now on, let $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ be an arbitrary cap. We will use the arm lengths $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $h_K^{\pm}(t)$ for our caculation. For most $t \in (0, \pi/2)$, the values $g_K^+(t)$ and $g_K^-(t)$ (resp. $h_K^+(t)$ and $h_K^-(t)$) 

> __Definition [arm-length-unsinged].__ For any angle $t \in (0, \pi/2)$, if $g_K^+(t) = g_K^-(t)$ (resp. $h_K^+(t) = h_K^-(t)$) then we simply denote the matching value as $g_K(t)$ (resp. $h_K(t)$). Note that the condition holds if and only if $\beta_K(\left\{ t \right\}) = 0$ (resp. $\beta_K(\left\{ t + \pi/2 \right\})$) by xxx. ^def-arm-length-unsinged

> __Theorem [arm-length-derivative].__ Assume that for some $t_0 \in (0, \pi/2)$, the measure $\beta_K$ near $t_0$ and $t_0 + \pi/2$ is derived from a continuous density function $f$. That is, there exists an open neighborhood $U$ of $t$ inside $[0, \pi/2]$ and a continuous $f : U \cup \left( U + \pi/2 \right) \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\beta_K(X) = \int_X f(x)\,dx$ for every measurable $X \subseteq U \cup (U + \pi/2)$. Then we have $g_{K}'(t_0) = -f(t_0) + h_{K}(t_0)$ and $h_K'(t_0) = f(t_0 + \pi/2) - g_K(t_0)$. ^thm-arm-length-derivative

_Proof._ We have the followings for every $t \in U$ by (TODO: some theorem in appendix).
$$
g_{K}(t) = \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \cos \left( u - t \right) \beta_K(du)
$$
$$
h_{K}(t) = \int_{t}^{t+\pi/2} \sin \left( u - t \right) \beta_K(du)
$$
Differentiate those at $t = t_0$ using Leibniz integral rule to get the following.
$$
g_{K}'(t_0) = -f(t_0) + \int_{t_0}^{t_0+\pi/2} \sin (u-t)\, \beta_K(du) = -f(t_0) + h_{K}(t_0) 
$$
$$
h_{K}'(t_0) = f\left( t_0 + \pi/2 \right) - \int_{t_0}^{t_0+\pi/2} \cos (u-t)\, \beta_K(du) = f(t_0 + \pi/2) - g_{K_1}(t_0)
$$
□

The following theorem solves the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on any open interval $(t_1, t_2) \cup (t_1 + \pi/2, t_2 + \pi/2)$. Note that the equation is a mesure-theoretic version of (ODE3), Theorem 2 of [[@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]] generalized to arbitrary caps.

> __Theorem [balanced-ACx].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\pi/2$ be any cap. Let $0 \leq t_1 < t_2 < \pi/2$ be two arbitrary angles. The measure $\beta_{K}$ is the same as the measure $\iota_{K}$ on the set $(t_1, t_2) \cup (t_1 + \pi/2, t_2 + \pi/2)$ if there is a constant $a_0$ and $c_0$ such that $\beta_K(t) = (a_0 + t) dt$ and $\beta_K(t + \pi/2) = (c_0 + t) dt$ on the interval $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. Moreover, for such $K$ we have $g(t) = g(t_1) + (t - t_0)$. ^thm-balanced-ACx

_Proof._ Assume that $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on the set $X = (t_1, t_2) \cup (t_1 + \pi/2, t_2 + \pi/2)$. Since the measure of $\beta_K$ is zero for every point of $X$, by [[20. Maximizer#^def-arm-length-unsinged]] we have $g_K(t) = g^\pm_K(t)$ and $h_K(t) = h_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. Also, by applying dominating convergence theorem to xxx, we obtain that functions $g_K(t)$ and $h_K(t)$ are continuous with respect to every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. Now we can apply [[20. Maximizer#^thm-arm-length-derivative]] to $K$ as $\beta_K = \iota_K$ has the continuous density function $i_K$ on $X$. For every $t \in (0, \pi/2)$, we have the followings by [[20. Maximizer#^thm-arm-length-derivative]] and [[15. Directional Derivative#^def-i-cap]].
$$
\begin{gather}
g_{K}'(t) = -i_K(t) + h_{K}(t) = 1 \\
h_K'(t) = i_K(t + \pi/2) - g_K(t) = -1
\end{gather}
$$
As $g_K(t) \to g_K^+(t_1)$ as $t \to t_1^+$, we have $g_K(t) = g_K^+(t_1) + (t - t_1)$. Likewise, as $h_K(t) \to h_K^+(t_1)$ as $t \to t_1^+$, we have $h_K(t) = h_K^+(t_1) - (t - t_1)$. Plugging this back into the equations above, we have $i_K(t) = 1 - h_K^+(t_1) + (t - t_1)$ and $i_K(t + \pi/2) = g_K^+(t_1) + (t - t_1) - 1$. As $\beta_K(dt) = i_K(t)dt$, we have $\beta_K(dt) = (a_1 + t) dt$ and .
□

With [[20. Maximizer#^thm-balanced-ACx]], we can now solve for the equation $\beta_K = \iota_K$ on $[0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$ with $t_1 = 0$ and $t_2 = \pi/2$.

> __Definition [maximum-presofa-a1].__ For any rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the cap $K_1 \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ as the cap with boundary measure $\beta_{K_1}$ with support in $J_{\omega} \cup \left\{ \omega + \pi, 3 \pi/2 \right\}$ satisfying the following conditions on $J_{\omega}$. ^def-maximum-presofa-a1
> 
> - $\beta_{K_1}(\{\omega\}) = \beta_{K_1}(\{\pi/2\}) = 1$ if $\omega < \pi/2$, or $\beta_{K_1}\left( \left\{ \pi/2 \right\} \right) = 2$ if $\omega = \pi/2$.
> - $\beta_{{K_1}}(dt) = (\omega -t)dt$ on $t \in [0, \omega)$ and $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = (t - \pi/2)dt$ on $t \in (\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$.
> - If $\omega=\pi/2$, $K_1$ is symmetric along the $y$-axis.

_Proof._ We use [[01. Space of Caps#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]] to construct such a cap $K_1$. Calculating $\int_{t \in [0, \omega] } \cos \left( t \right) \, \beta_{K_1} (dt)$ gives 1 like the computation above. Likewise, calculating $\int_{t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt)$ also gives 1 by a similar computation. If $\omega = \pi/2$, the construction of [[01. Space of Caps#^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure]] gives a freedom of translating $K_1$ along the $x$-axis. Using the symmetry of $\beta_{K_1}$, position $K_1$ so that it is symmetric along the $y$-axis. □

> __Theorem [maximum-presofa-a1].__ The cap $K_1 \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ attains the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$. ^thm-maximum-presofa-a1

_Proof._ By [[01. Space of Caps#^thm-variation-maximizer]] and [[#^thm-variation-a1]] it suffice to check that $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_{K_1}(t)dt$ on $J_\omega$ except for the points $t = \omega, \pi/2$. Take any $t \in (0, \omega)$, then we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
g^+_K(t) & = \int_{u \in (t, t+\pi/2]} \cos (u-t)\, \beta(du) \\
& = \cos(\omega - t) + \cos(\pi/2 - t) + \int_{t}^{\omega} \cos(u-t)(\omega-u)\,du + \int_{\pi/2}^{t + \pi/2} \cos(u-t)(u - \pi/2)\,du  \\
& = 1 + t
\end{align*}
$$
Note that this computation holds for both cases $\omega < \pi/2$ and $\omega = \pi/2$. So on the domain $t \in (\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$ the measure $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = (t - \pi/2) dt$ is equal to $i_K(t) dt = (g^+_K(t - \pi/2) - 1) dt$. Similarly, we can also check $\beta_{K_1}(dt) = i_K(t) dt$ on any $t \in [0, \omega)$. □

> __Theorem [maximum-presofa-a1-area].__ The maximum value $\mathcal{A}_1(K_1)$ is $1 + \omega^2/2$.  ^thm-maximum-presofa-a1-area

_Proof._ If $\omega = \pi/2$, let $p_\omega = (0, 1)$. Let $\tau = (\pi/2-\omega)/2$. Then we have $p_\omega = (\tan(\tau), 1)$ for any angle $\omega \leq \pi/2$. Note that $K_1$ has mirror symmetry along the line segment connecting $(0, 0)$ and $p_\omega$.

Let us compute the value of $p_{K_1}(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. 
$$
\begin{align*}
p_{K_1}(t) - p_\omega \cdot u_t & = (A^-_{K_1}(t) - p_\omega) \cdot u_t =  \\
& = \sin(\omega - t) + \int_{t_0 \in [t, \omega] } (\omega - t_0) \sin \left( t_0 - t \right) \, dt_{0} \\
& = \omega - t
\end{align*}
$$
So $p_{K_1}(t) = \omega - t + p_{\omega} \cdot u_t$ on $t \in [0, \omega]$. By symmetry, $p_{K_1}(t) = t - \pi/2 + p_\omega \cdot u_t$ on $t \in [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$. Now use the mirror symmetry to calculate half the area of $K_1$.
$$
\begin{align*}
\frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} p_{K_1}(t) \, \beta(dt) & = 
\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in [0, \omega]} \left( \omega - t + p_\omega \cdot u_t \right)  (\omega-t) \, dt \\
& = \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{2} \left( \omega^3 / 3 + p_\omega \cdot (1 - \cos(\omega), \omega - \sin(\omega)) \right) 
\end{align*}
$$
So we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
|K_1| & = 1 + \omega^3 / 3 + p_\omega \cdot (1 - \cos \omega, \omega - \sin \omega) \\
& = \omega^3/3 + \omega + \cot\left( \pi/4 + \omega/2 \right)
\end{align*}
$$

Next, we compute the area of the niche $I(\mathbf{x}_{K_1})$. We have 
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = (p_{K_1}(t) - 1)u_t + (p_{K_1}(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t
$$
and
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_1} = -(g_{K_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot u_t + (h_{K_1}^+(t) - 1) \cdot v_t = 
- t \cdot u_t + (\omega - t) \cdot v_t
$$
so
$$
\begin{align*}
I(\mathbf{x}_{K_1}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (p_{K_1}(t) - 1)(\omega - t) + (p_{K_1}(t+\pi/2) - 1) t \, dt  \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (\omega - t + p_{\omega} \cdot u_t - 1) (\omega - t) \, dt + 
\frac{1}{2} \int_0^\omega (t + p_{\omega} \cdot v_t - 1) t \, dt \\
& = \omega^3 / 3 - \omega^2 / 2 + (-1 + \omega + \cot\left( \pi/4 + \omega/2 \right) )
\end{align*}
$$
Finally, we compute $\mathcal{A}_1(K_1) = |K_1| - I(\mathbf{x}_{K_1}) = 1 + \omega^2 / 2$. □