In this [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/02. Domain]], we define the domain $\mathcal{L}$ of the upper bound $\mathcal{Q}$. We first define a convex subset $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ of the space of caps $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ that satisfy the _injectivity condition_ defined in [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/00. Preface]].

> __Definition [cap-space-special].__ Define $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ as the subset of caps $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ that (i) satisfies the injectivity condition ([[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]]), and (ii) have area $|K| \geq 2.2$. ^def-cap-space-special

> __Theorem [cap-space-special].__ The space $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ is a convex subspace of $\mathcal{K}$ containing all balanced maximum caps $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and the cap $\mathcal{C}(G)$ of Gerver's sofa. ^thm-cap-space-special

_Proof._ We first show that $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i} \subset \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ is a convex subset. The [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]] of injectivity condition on $K$ is made of linear constraints in $K$, and so is preserved under the barycentric operation of $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$. For any $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, by the Brunn-Minkowski theorem
$$
|(1 - \lambda)K_1 + \lambda K_2| \geq |K_1|^{1 - \lambda} |K_2|^{\lambda}
$$
we have $|c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)| \geq 2.2$ if $|K_1|, |K_2| \geq 2.2$. This shows that the condition $|K| \geq 2.2$ is also closed under $c_\lambda$. So $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ defines a convex subset of $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$.

By [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity]] and [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^thm-injectivity-gerver]], both the balanced maximum caps $K$ and the cap $\mathcal{C}(G)$ of Gerver's sofa satisfy the injectivity condition. It is known that $G$ have area $2.2195\dots \geq 2.2$, and any balanced maximum cap $K$ attains the maximum value of sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$, so it should have area $|K| \geq \mathcal{A}(K) \geq \mathcal{A}(G) = 2.2195\dots \geq 2.2$ again. □

> __Remark [cap-space-special-notation].__ Remind that for any $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$, we can talk about the density function $r_K$ and $s_K$ of the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ on $[0, \pi/2)$ and $(\pi/2, \pi]$ respectively by (1) of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/01. Statement#^def-injectivity-condition]]. Likewise, the walls $a_K(t)$ and $c_K(t)$ makes contact with $K$ at unique points $A_K(t)$ and $C_K(t)$ respectively (see [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/15. Inequality on Balanced Maximum Caps#^def-cap-nondegenerate]]), and we can talk about the arm lengths $f_K(t) = f_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $g_K(t) = g_K^{\pm}(t)$. ^rem-cap-space-special-notation

Define the angle constants that determine Gerver's sofa $G$.

> __Definition [gerver-constants].__ Define $\varphi$ and $\theta$ as the real constants determining Gerver's sofa $G$, which satisfies $0 < \varphi < \theta < \pi/4$ and the Equations 27 to 44 of [@romik]. Note that $\varphi \in [0.039, 0.040]$ in particular (see Table 1 of [@romik]). Define the constants $\varphi^{\mathrm{R}} := \varphi$ and $\varphi^{\text{L}} := \pi/2 - \varphi$. ^def-gerver-constants

> __Remark [gerver-constants].__ The blue core of $G$ in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^fig-gerver-ch3]] is the trajectory of the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_G(t)$ on the interval $t \in [\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]$. ^rem-gerver-constants

Now we define the domain $\mathcal{L}$ of $\mathcal{Q}$. The motivations of the conditions will be explained in the next [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/05. Definition]].

> __Definition [cap-tail-space].__ Define $\mathcal{L}$ as the space of all tuples $(K, B, D)$ of convex bodies such that the followings are true. ^def-cap-tail-space
> 
> 1. $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$, $B \subseteq K$, and $D \subseteq K$.
> 2. For every $t \in [\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \pi/2]$, we have $h_K(t) + h_B(\pi + t) \leq 1$.
> 3. Equality holds in (2) at $t = \varphi^\mathrm{R}, \pi/2$.
> 4. For every $t \in [0, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]$, we have $h_K(\pi/2 + t) + h_D(3\pi/2 + t) \leq 1$.
> 5. Equality holds in (4) at $t = 0, \varphi^\mathrm{R}$.

> __Proposition [cap-tail-space].__ The space $\mathcal{L}$ is a convex domain with the barycentric operation ^pro-cap-tail-space
$$
c_\lambda((K_1, B_1, D_1), (K_2, B_2, D_2)) := (c_\lambda(K_1, K_2), c_\lambda(B_1, B_2), c_\lambda(D_1, D_2)). 
$$

_Proof._ The product $\mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K}$ of convex domains $\mathcal{K}$ is naturally a convex domain. Recall that $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i}$ is a convex subspace of $\mathcal{K}$. That $B \subseteq K$ (resp. $D \subseteq K$) can be written as linear constraints $h_B(t) \leq h_K(t)$ (resp. $h_D(t) \leq h_K(t)$) over all $t \in S^1$. So the condition (1) of [[#^def-cap-tail-space]] is preserved under barycentric operations. By (1) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/05. Convex Space#^thm-convex-body-linear]], the conditions (2) to (5) of [[#^def-cap-tail-space]] are linear constraints. □