- [ ] Figure out what is exactly needed from $(K, B, D)$ of Gerver's sofa to 
- [ ] 

We will calculate the directional derivative $D \mathcal{Q}$ of $\mathcal{Q}$ at the point $(K, B_K, D_K) \in \mathcal{L}$ corresponding to the cap $K := \mathcal{C}(G)$ of Gerver's sofa $G$. The value turns out to be non-positive. Since $\mathcal{Q}$ is concave and quadratic ([[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/10. Concavity#^thm-upper-bound-concave]]), this implies that $(K, B_K, D_K)$ is the maximizer of $\mathcal{Q}$. 

We first prepare the theorems that calculate the directional derivative on each curve of $\mathcal{Q}$.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Then the curve area functional $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ on $\mathbf{x} \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ is quadratic. Moreover, the directional derivative of $\mathcal{J}$ from $\mathbf{x}$ to $\mathbf{x}^*$ evaluates to ^thm-variation-curve
$$
D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}^*(t) - \mathbf{x}(t))  \times d\mathbf{x} (t) + \left[ \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(b), \mathbf{x}^*(b)) - \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(a), \mathbf{x}^*(a)) \right] .
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$. Apply [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/05. Convex Space#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get ^eqn-variation-curve
$$
2 D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^*) + \mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}^*, \mathbf{x}) - 2 \mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}).
$$
With integration by parts ([[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue--Stieltjes Measure#^thm-integration-by-parts]]), we get
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}^*(t) = \mathbf{x} (b) \times \mathbf{x}^*(b) - \mathbf{x}(a) \times \mathbf{x}^*(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}^*(t) \times d\mathbf{x} (t)
$$
or
$$
\mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^*) = 2\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(b), \mathbf{x}^*(b)) - 2\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(a), \mathbf{x}^*(a)) + \mathcal{B}(\mathbf{x}^*, \mathbf{x}).
$$
Plug this back in [[#^eqn-variation-curve]] and rearrange the terms to get the desired equality. □

> __Remark [variation-curve].__ Note that in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/15. Directional Derivative#^thm-variation-curve]], the term in the square bracket $[-]$ measures the difference of $\mathcal{J}(-, -)$ at the endpoints. Other theorems calculating the directional derivative of $\mathcal{J}$ on curves will also have similar terms in square bracket $[-]$. ^rem-variation-curve

> __Theorem [variation-segment].__ Treat $\mathbb{R}^2 \times \mathbb{R}^2$ as a convex domain. Then the curve area functional $\mathcal{J}(p, q)$ on $(p, q) \in \mathbb{R}^2 \times \mathbb{R}^2$ is quadratic. For any $(p, q), (p^*, q^*) \in \mathbb{R}^2 \times \mathbb{R}^2$, the directional derivative of $\mathcal{J}(-, -)$ evaluates to ^thm-variation-segment
$$
D\mathcal{J}(p, q ; p^*, q^*) = \frac{1}{2} \left( (p^* + q^*) \times (q - p) - 2(p \times q) \right) + \left[ \mathcal{J}(q, q^*) - \mathcal{J}(p, p^*) \right] 
$$
> where the first term in the round bracket $\left( - \right)$ equates to zero when $p = q$.

_Proof._ Define the bilinear form $\mathcal{B}((p_1, q_1), (p_2, q_2)) = p_1 \times q_2 + p_2 \times q_1$ on $(p_1, q_1), (p_2, q_2) \in \mathbb{R}^2 \times \mathbb{R}^2$. Apply [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/05. Convex Space#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $4\mathcal{J}(p, q) = \mathcal{B}((p, q), (p, q))$ and use that $\mathcal{B}$ is symmetric to obtain
$$
\begin{align*}
2 \, D \mathcal{J}(p, q; p^*, q^*) &= \mathcal{B}((p^*, q^*), (p, q)) - \mathcal{B}((p, q), (p, q)) \\
& = p^* \times q + p \times q^* - 2(p \times q) \\
& = \left[ (p^* + q^*) \times (q - p) - 2(p \times q) \right] + q \times q^* - p \times p^*
\end{align*}
$$
and divide by 2 to conclude the proof. □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area-variation].__ Fix $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Define $f(K) := \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right)$ as a functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}$. Then $f$ is quadratic on $\mathcal{K}$ and its directional derivative from $K$ to $K^*$ evaluates to ^thm-convex-curve-area-variation
$$
D f(K; K^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{K^*}(t) - h_K(t) \right) \, \sigma_{K}(dt) + \left[ \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^-(b), v_K^- (b) \right) - \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^+(a), v_K^+ (a) \right) \right] .
$$

_Proof._ Define the bilinear form $\mathcal{B} : \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ on $\mathcal{K}$ as ^eqn-b-def
$$
\mathcal{B}(K_1, K_2) := \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_{K_1}(t) \, \sigma_{K_2}(dt) .
$$
We first show ^eqn-b-vertex
$$
\mathcal{B}(K_1, K_2) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{K_1}^+(t) \times d v_{K_2}^+(t) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{K_1}^-(t) \times d v_{K_2}^+(t).
$$
To do so, check
$$
v_{K_1}^{\pm}(t) \times \mathrm{d} v_{K_2}(t) = v_{K_1}^{\pm}(t) \times (v_t \sigma_{K_2}) = (v_{K_1}^{\pm}(t) \times v_t) \sigma_{K_2} = h_{K_1}(t) \sigma_{K_2}
$$
as pairs of measures on $t \in (a, b)$.

By integration by parts ([[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue--Stieltjes Measure#^thm-integration-by-parts]]) and that the left limit of $v_{K_1}^+$ at $t$ is $v_{K_1}^-(t)$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]), we get
$$
\int_{t \in (a, b)} d v_{K_1}^+(t) \times v_{K_2}^+(t) + \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{K_1}^-(t) \times d v_{K_2}^+(t) = v_{K_1}^-(b) \times v_{K_2}^-(b) - v_{K_1}^+(a) \times v_{K_2}^+(b).
$$
With [[#^eqn-b-vertex]] and the anticommutativity $a \times b = -b \times a$ of cross product, this becomes
$$
\mathcal{B}(K_1, K_2) - \mathcal{B}(K_2, K_1) = 2 \mathcal{J}(v_{K_1}^-(b), v_{K_2}^-(b)) - 2 \mathcal{J} (v_{K_1}^+(a), v_{K_2}^+(b)).
$$

Now use [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/05. Convex Space#^lem-derivative-calculation]] on $f(K) = \mathcal{B}(K, K)$ to get
$$
\begin{align*}
D f(K; K^*) & = \mathcal{B}(K, K^*) + \mathcal{B}(K^*, K) - 2 \mathcal{B}(K, K) \\
& = 2\mathcal{B}(K^*, K) - 2 \mathcal{B}(K, K) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^-(b), v_K^- (b) \right) - \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^+(a), v_K^+ (a) \right)
\end{align*}
$$
and use [[#^eqn-b-def]]. □

We introduce a measure $\iota_K$ to calculate the directional derivative of $\mathcal{J}$ on the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$ of cap $K$.

> __Definition [i-cap].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}^{\mathrm{i}}$, define the function $i_K : [0, \pi] \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = g_K(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = f_K(t) - 1$ for every $t \in (0, \pi/2]$. Define $\iota_K$ as the measure on $[0, \pi]$ derived from the density function $i_K$. That is, $\iota_K(dt) = i_K(t) dt$ and $\iota_K\left( \left\{ 0 \right\} \right) = 0$ in particular. ^def-i-cap

[[#^def-i-cap]] is motivated by the following lemma.

> __Lemma [i-cap].__ Let $I \subseteq [0, \pi/2]$ be any interval. Let $K, K^* \in \mathcal{K}^{\mathrm{i}}$ be arbitrary. Then the following holds. ^lem-i-cap
$$
\int_{t \in I} \mathbf{x}_{K}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_{K^*} (t) = \left< h_{K} - 1, \iota_{K^*} \right>_{I \cup (I + \pi/2)} 
$$

_Proof._ By [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/05. Arm Lengths#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] and [[old/xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^pro-arm-length-unsigned]], the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_{K_2}(t)$ with respect to $t$ exists almost everywhere and is the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_2}(t) = -(g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) v_t
$$
Meanwhile, we have the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) u_t + 
(p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) v_t
$$
So the cross-product $\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \times \mathbf{x}_{K_2}'(t)$ is equal to the following almost everywhere.
$$
(h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1)
$$
Now the left-hand side is equal to
$$
\int_{t \in J} (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) \, dt
$$
and by [[#^def-i-cap]] this integral is equal to $\left< h_{K_1} - 1, \iota_{K_2} \right>_{I \cup (I + \pi/2)}$. □

> __Theorem [variation-a2].__ Assume that $(K, B, D) \in \mathcal{L}$ satisfies the constraints $X_B = \mathbf{x}_K^\mathrm{R}$ and $Y_D = \mathbf{x}_K^\mathrm{L}$. Then the directional derivative of $\mathcal{Q}$ at $(K, B, D)$ in the direction towards arbitrary $(K^*, B^*, D^*) \in \mathcal{L}$ is ^thm-variation-a2
$$
\begin{align*}
D\mathcal{Q}(K, B, D; K^*, B^*, D^*) & =
\left< h_{K^*} - h_K, \sigma_K \right>_{[0, \pi]} -
\left< h_{K^*} - h_K, \iota_K \right>_{[\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]} \\
& \phantom{=} + 
\left< h_{B^*} - h_B, \sigma_B \right>_{[\varphi^\mathrm{R} + \pi, 3\pi/2]} + 
\left< h_{D^*} - h_D, \sigma_D \right>_{[3\pi/2, \varphi_L + 3\pi/2]}.
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ Apply XX to YY in each term of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/05. Definition#^def-upper-bound-q]]. □

Calculate the directional derivative at Gerver's sofa.

> __Theorem [variation-a2-gerver].__ Let $K := \mathcal{C}(G)$ be the cap of Gerver's sofa $G$. Let $B := B_K$ and $D := D_K$. Take arbitrary $(K^*, B^*, D^*) \in \mathcal{L}$. Then we have ^thm-variation-a2-gerver
$$
D \mathcal{Q}(K, B, D; K^*, B^*, D^*) \leq 0.
$$

_Proof._ By [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/05. Definition#^thm-upper-bound-q-gerver]], we have $X_B = \mathbf{x}_K^\mathrm{R}$ and $Y_D = \mathbf{x}_K^\mathrm{L}$ for the cap $K$ of Gerver's sofa $G$. So we can use [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Quadratic Upper Bound/15. Directional Derivative#^thm-variation-a2]] and calculate the directional derivative
$$
\begin{align*}
D\mathcal{Q}(K, B, D; K^*, B^*, D^*) & =
\left< h_{K^*} - h_K, \sigma_K \right>_{[0, \pi]} -
\left< h_{K^*} - h_K, \iota_K \right>_{[\varphi, \pi/2 - \varphi]} \\
& \phantom{{}={}} + 
\left< h_{B^*} - h_B, \sigma_B \right>_{[\varphi + \pi, 3\pi/2]} + 
\left< h_{D^*} - h_D, \sigma_D \right>_{[3\pi/2, 2 \pi - \varphi_L]}.
\end{align*}
$$

Each term is an integral over some interval. We divide the whole interval $[0, \pi]$ into 11 disjoint intervals. First define the sequence $t_i \in \mathbb{R}$ on indices $0 \leq i \leq 10$.

- Let $(t_0, t_1, t_2) := (0, \varphi, \theta)$.
- Let $t_i := \pi/2 - t_{5 - i}$ for all $3 \leq i \leq 5$.
- Then let $t_i := \pi/2 - t_{10 - i}$ for all $6 \leq i \leq 10$. 

Listing out all numbers $t_i$ over $0 \leq i \leq 10$, we have
$$
0, \varphi, \theta, \pi/2 - \theta, \pi/2 - \varphi, \pi/2, \pi/2 + \varphi, \pi/2 + \theta, \pi - \theta, \pi - \varphi, \pi
$$
and it is easy to check that this is strictly increasing, so forms a finite partition of the interval $[0, \pi]$. For any $0 \leq i \leq 4$, define the interval $I_i := [t_i, t_{i+1})$. Define $I_5 = \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$ which is $[t_5, t_5]$. For any $6 \leq i \leq 11$, define $I_i := (t_{i-1}, t_i]$. 

1. $h_K(t) + h_B(t + \pi) = 1$ on $t \in [0, \theta]$
2. $\sigma_K(dt + \pi/2) = \sigma_D(dt + 3\pi/2)$ on $t \in [0, \varphi]$
3. $\sigma_K(dt + \pi/2) = \sigma_D(dt + 3\pi/2) + \iota_K(dt + \pi/2)$ on $t \in [\varphi, \theta]$
4. $\sigma_K(dt + \pi/2) = \iota_K(dt + \pi/2)$ on $t \in [\theta, \pi/2 - \varphi]$
5. $\sigma_K(dt + \pi/2) = 0$ on $t \in [\pi/2 - \varphi, \pi/2]$


|                                          | $I_1$ | $I_2$ | $I_3$ | $I_4$ | $I_5$ | $I_6$ | $I_7$ | $I_8$ | $I_9$ | $I_10$ |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ------ |
| $\left< h_{K^*} - h_K, \sigma_K \right>$ |       | O     | O     | O     | O     | O     | O     | O     | O     |        |
| $- \left< h_{K^*} - h_K,\iota_K \right>$ |       | O     | O     | O     |       |       | O     | O     | O     |        |
| $\left< h_{B^*} - h_B, \sigma_B \right>$ |       |       |       | O     | O     |       |       |       |       |        |
| $\left< h_{D^*} - h_D, \sigma_D \right>$ |       |       |       |       |       | O     | O     |       |       |        |



- VI: $\sigma_K = \sigma_D$. So $\left< h_{K^*} - h_K + h_{D^*} - h_D, \sigma_K \right> = \left\{ (h_{K^*} + h_{D^*}) - (h_K + h_D), \sigma_K \right\}$ and the function part is nonpositive.


□

> __Remark [quadratic-upper-bound].__ The convex space $\mathcal{L}$ and quadratic upper bound $\mathcal{Q} : \mathcal{L} \to \mathbb{R}$ of the sofa area depends on the constants $\varphi^\mathrm{R}$ and $\varphi^\mathrm{L}$. In fact, other choices of constants $\varphi^\mathrm{R}$ and $\varphi^\mathrm{L}$ than $(\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}) = (\varphi, \pi/2 - \varphi)$ coming from Gerver's sofa also gives a valid upper bound $\mathcal{Q} : \mathcal{L} \to \mathbb{R}$ of the sofa area. However, for such a $\mathcal{Q}$, the maximizer $(K, B, D)$ of $\mathcal{Q}$ does not happen to be in the embedding $\mathcal{K}^\mathrm{i} \to \mathcal{L}$, because the ends of tails $\mathbf{l}_D$, $\mathbf{r}_B$ and core $\mathbf{x}_K|_{[\varphi^\mathrm{R}, \varphi^\mathrm{L}]}$ does not match. That is, the upper bound of $\mathcal{Q}$ is not realized by an actual sofa. The constant $\varphi$ of Gerver's sofa comes from having to match the ends of tails and core. ^rem-quadratic-upper-bound