Fix an arbitrary planar convex body $K$, which by , is a nonempty, compact and convex subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$. This appendix defines and proves numerous properties of $K$.

# Convex Bodies

We use the _surface area measure_ $\beta_K$ of a convex body $K$ [[@busemann1958convex]] [[@schneiderConvexSurfacesCurvature1993]]. Because we only work with two-dimensional convex bodies, we call such measure the _boundary measure_ of $K$.

If every tangent line $l_K(t)$ of a convex body $K$ touches $K$ at the single point $v_K(t) = v_K^{\pm}(t)$, and the vertex $v_K(t)$ is a smooth function with respect to $t$, the measure $\beta_K$ is the measure on $S^1$ with distribution function $|| v_K'(t) ||$. That is, $\beta(dt) = || v_K'(t) || dt$. So essentially, $\beta_K$ measures the differential side lengths of $K$. $\beta_K$ generalizes naturally to $K$ with non-smooth boundary. For example, if $K$ is the unit square $[0, 1]^2$ then $\beta_K$ is concentrated on four points $t = 0, \pi/2, \pi, 3\pi/2$ each with a measure 1, measuring the exact lengths of each edge with a given normal angle.

A lot of information of a convex body $K$, including $\beta_K$, is linear with respect to $K$.

> __Definition [convex-body-linear].__ Let $V$ be a vector space and $f$ be a map from the collection of all convex bodies to $V$. If for any convex bodies $K_1, K_2$ and $a, b \geq 0$ we have $f(aK_1+bK_2) = af(K_1) + b f(K_2)$, then we say that $f$ is _linear_ on the convex bodies. If $V=\mathbb{R}$ call such $f$ a _linear functional_ on convex bodies. ^def-convex-body-linear

> __Theorem [convex-body-linear].__ Support function $p_K$, boundary measure $\beta_K$, vertices $v_K^+$ and $v_K^-$ are all linear with respect to convex body $K$. Also, for fixed and different $t_1, t_2 \in S^1$ such that $t_2 \neq t_1 + \pi$, the intersection point $l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2)$ is linear respect to $K$. ^thm-convex-body-linear

We define the curve parametrization of the boundary of any convex body $K$ with nonempty interior.

> __Theorem [boundary-parametrization].__ For any convex body $K$ with nonempty interior, the topological boundary $\partial K$ is both (i) a Jordan curve and (ii) the union $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$ of all the edges of $K$. Write $B_K$ for the length of $\partial K$. For any angle $t \in \mathbb{R}$ there is a unique positively oriented arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, t} : [0, B_K]$ of $\partial K$ that starts and ends with $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-boundary-parametrization

> __Theorem [boundary-parametrization-segment].__ Let $K$ be any convex body $K$ with nonempty interior. For every angles $t_1, t_2 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_2 \in [t_1, t_1 + 2\pi]$, we can assign an arc-length curve parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{t_1, t_2}$ such that it satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-parametrization-segment
> 
> - $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1, t_2}$ is a Jordan arc or curve from $v_K^+(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$ parametrizing the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_1) \right\} \bigcup \cup_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} e_K(t)$.
> - $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + 2\pi}$ is $\mathbf{x}_{K, t}$ for any $t \in \mathbb{R}$.
> - For any $t_0, t_1, t_2$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_2}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1, t_2}$.

> __Theorem [boundary-parametrization-segment-closed].__ Moreover, for every $t_1$ and $t_2 \in [t_1, t_1 + 2\pi)$ we can assign an arc-length curve parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1 -, t_2}$ such that it satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-parametrization-segment-closed
> 
> - $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1 -, t_2}$ is a Jordan arc or curve from $v_K^-(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$ parametrizing the set $\bigcup_{t \in [t_1, t_2]} e_K(t)$.
> - $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1 -, t_2}$ is the join of $e_K(t_1)$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1, t_2}$.
> - For any $t_0, t_1, t_2$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 < t_0 + 2\pi$, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0 -, t_2}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0 -, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1, t_2}$.

This theorem connects the boundary measure of $K$ to the area of $K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-area].__ For any convex body $K$, the boundary measure satisfies the _area formula_: ^thm-boundary-measure-area
$$
\left| K \right| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{S^1}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$
> Moreover, we have the following formulas for the area functional on boundary segments. For all $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ with $t_0 < t_1 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$, we have the followings.
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{(t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$
> If $t_1 < t_0 + 2\pi$,
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0 -, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{[t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt).
$$

The following theorem is known as the Gauss-Minkowski theorem [[@marckert2014compact]]. It gives a bijection between any convex body $K$ and its boundary measure $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [gauss-minkowski].__ (Gauss-Minkowski) Let $p_0$ be an arbitrary point on $\mathbb{R}^2$ and $t_0 \in S^1$ be an arbitrary angle. Then any convex body $K$ with the vertex $v_K^+(t_0) = p_0$ corresponds bijectively to an arbitrary measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$ by $\beta = \beta_K$. Moreover, any convex body $K'$ such that $\beta_{K'} = \beta$ is a translation of $K$, so for any $\beta$ with $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$ there is a unique convex body $K$ with $\beta_K = \beta$ up to translations. ^thm-gauss-minkowski

The following theorems use the angular support of a convex body $K$.

> __Definition [convex-set-support].__ Define the _angular support_ of a convex body $K$ as the support of the boundary measure $\beta_K$ on $S^1$. ^def-convex-set-support

> __Theorem [convex-set-support-disjoint].__ Let $K$ be a convex body, and let $(t_1, t_2)$ be an open interval of $S^1$ of length $< \pi$. The followings are equivalent. ^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint
> 
> 1. $(t_1, t_2)$ is disjoint from the angular support of $K$
> 2. $v_K^+(t_1) = v_K^-(t_2)$
> 3. Both $v_K^+(t_1)$ and $v_K^-(t_2)$ are equal to a point $p$. Also, $p = v_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ and $p = l_K(a) \cap l_K(b)$ for every $a, b \in [t_1, t_2]$ where $a \neq b$.

_Proof._ (of [[00. Preface#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]]) 

(1 $\Leftrightarrow$ 2) From $\int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^-(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1)$ we have (1 $\Rightarrow$ 2). Conversely, if $\beta$ is not zero on $(t_1, t_2)$ then the integral $\int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} v_t \, \beta(dt)$ is nonzero when measured in the direction of $u_{t_1}$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 2) is trivial.

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Letting $p = v_K^+(t_1) = v_K^-(t_2)$, we also have $p = v_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ as well, as $\beta$ is zero on the interval $(t_1, t_2)$. So $p$ is on the line $l_K(t)$ for every $t \in [t_1, t_2]$, and (3) follows. □

> __Theorem [convex-set-support].__ Let $\Pi$ be any closed subset of $S^1$ such that $S^1 \setminus \Pi$ is the disjoint union of open intervals of length $< \pi$. Then for any convex body $K$, $K = \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$ holds if and only if the angular support of $K$ is contained in $\Pi$. ^thm-convex-set-support

%% TODO: I know that the argument below is faulty, but the theorem is not worth thinking too much in all petty details. %%

_Proof._ (of [[00. Preface#^thm-convex-set-support]]) We have $K = \bigcap_{t \in S^1} H_K(t) \subseteq \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$ always. The equality holds if and only if for every $t$ not in $\Pi$, $H_K(t)$ contains the set $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$. Let $(t_1, t_2)$ be any connected component of $S^1 \setminus \Pi$. Then the interval has length $< \pi$ by assumption. Now take any $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. Observe that $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t) \subseteq H_K(t)$ if and only if $p = l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2) \in H_K(t)$, as $p$ is the point of $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$ farthest in the direction of $u_t$. Then $p \in H_K(t)$ holds for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ if and only if $(t_1, t_2)$ is disjoint from the angular support of $K$ by [[00. Preface#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]]. This completes the proof. □

The following follows immediately from [[00. Preface#^def-convex-set-support]].

> __Theorem [supported-gauss-measure].__ Let $\Pi$ be any closed subset of $S^1$ such that $S^1 \setminus \Pi$ is the disjoint union of open intervals of length $< \pi$. The correspondence in [[#^thm-gauss-minkowski]] maps the convex bodies $K$ with angular support in $\Pi$ bijectively to arbitrary (nonnegative) measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ with support in $\Pi$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. ^thm-supported-gauss-measure

# Jordan Curve

Recall the following two standard theorems.

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ (Jordan curve theorem. Theorem 8-40 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]) Any Jordan curve $J$ divides the complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus J$ into two connected components: an unbounded region $\mathcal{U}(J)$, and a bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$. Their boundaries are both $J$. ^thm-jordan-curve

The following theorem is a special case of Green's theorem.

> __Theorem [green].__ (Theorem 10-43 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]] with $P = -y/2$ and $Q=x/2$) If $J$ is a Jordan curve with a positively oriented, rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, then the area of the bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$ can be computed as the following. ^thm-green
$$
\left| \mathcal{B}(J) \right| = I(\mathbf{x})
$$

Any Jordan curve is either positively or negatively oriented. Although we won't provide the precise definition of the orientation of a Jordan curve (e.g. [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]), we use the following lemma to determine the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Lemma [orientation].__ Let $p$ and $q$ be two different points of $\mathbb{R}^2$. Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the closed half-planes separated by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. If a Jordan curve $J$ consists of the join of two arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$, where $\Gamma_0$ connects $p$ to $q$ inside $H_0$, and $\Gamma_1$ connects $q$ to $p$ inside $H_1$, then $J$ is positively oriented. ^lem-orientation

_Proof._ (sketch) We first show that it is safe to assume the case where $J$ only intersects $l$ at two points $p$ and $q$. Observe that $H_i$ has a deformation retract to some subset $S_i \subseteq H_i$ with $S_i \cap l = \left\{ p, q \right\}$ (push the three segments of $l \setminus \{p, q\}$ towards the interior of $H_i$). Using the retracts, we may continuously deform the arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$ inside $S_0$ and $S_1$ respectively without chainging the orientation of $J$. Now take any point $r$ inside the segment connecting $p$ and $q$. Continuously move a point $x$ inside $J$ in the orientation of $J$ starting with $x = p$. As $x$ moves along $\Gamma_0$ from $p$ to $q$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ increases by $\pi$. And as $x$ moves along $\Gamma_1$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ again increases by $\pi$. So the total increase in the argument of $x \in J$ is $2\pi$ and $J$ is positively oriented. □