Here, we prove numerous properties on the support function $p_K$ ([[05. Notations and conventions#^def-support-function]]) and the vertices $v_K^{\pm}(t)$ ([[05. Notations and conventions#^def-convex-body-vertex]]) of a convex body $K$.

# Continuity and linearity

> __Definition [convex-body-linear].__ For any function $f$ that maps an arbitrary convex body $K$ to a value $f(K)$ in a vector space $V$, say that $f$ is _linear_ with respect to $K$ if the followings hold. ^def-convex-body-linear
> 
> 1. For any $a \geq 0$ and a convex body $K$, we have $f(aK) = a f(K)$.
> 2. For any $a, b \geq 0$ and convex bodies $K_1, K_2$, we have $f(K_1 + K_2) = f(K_1) + f(K_2)$.

Note that the sum used in [[05. Vertex and support function#^def-convex-body-linear]] is the Minkowski sum of convex bodies. That is, $aK = \left\{ ap : p \in K \right\}$ and $K_1 + K_2 = \left\{ p_1 + p_2 : p_1 \in K_1, p_2 : K_2 \right\}$. The followings are well-known.

> __Theorem [support-function-lipschitz].__ For any convex body $K$, its support function $p_K$ is Lipschitz. ^thm-support-function-lipschitz

> __Proposition [support-function-linear].__ The support function $p_K$ is linear with respect to $K$. ^pro-support-function-linear

We will soon show that the vertex $v_K^{+}(t)$ (resp. $v_K^-(t)$) is right-continuous (resp. left-continuous) respect to $t$ and is linear with respect to $K$. To do so, we compute the limit of vertices via [[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]].

> __Definition [convex-body-tangent-lines-intersection].__ For every $t_1, t_2 \in S^1$ such that $t_2 \neq t_1,  t_1 + \pi$, define $v_K(t_1, t_2)$ as the intersection $l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2)$. ^def-convex-body-tangent-lines-intersection

> __Lemma [tangent-lines-intersection-linear].__ For any fixed $t_1, t_2 \in S^1$ such that $t_2 \neq t_1,  t_1 + \pi$, the point $v_K(t_1, t_2)$ is linear with respect to $K$. ^lem-tangent-lines-intersection-linear

_Proof._ The point $p = v_K(t_1, t_2)$ is the unique point such that $p \cdot u_{t_1} = p_K(t_1)$ and $p \cdot u_{t_2} = p_K(t_2)$ holds. By solving the linear equations, observe that the coordinates of $p$ are linear combinations of $p_K(t_1)$ and $p_K(t_2)$. By [[05. Vertex and support function#^pro-support-function-linear]] the result follows. □

> __Theorem [limits-converging-to-vertex].__ Let $K$ be a convex body and $t$ be an arbitrary angle. We have the following right limits all converging to $v_K^+(t)$. In particular, the vertex $v_K^+(t)$ is a right-continuous function on $t \in S^1$. ^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex
$$
\lim_{ t' \to t^+ } v_K^+(t) = \lim_{ t' \to t^+ } v_K^-(u) = \lim_{ t' \to t^+ } v_K(t, t') = v_K^+(t)
$$
> Similarly, we have the following left limits.
$$
\lim_{ t' \to t^- } v_K^+(t') = \lim_{ t' \to t^- } v_K^-(t') = \lim_{ t' \to t^- } v_K(t', t) = v_K^-(t)
$$

_Proof._ We only compute the right limits. Left limits can be shown using a symmetric argument.

Let $\epsilon > 0$ be arbitrary. Let $p = v_K^+(t) + \epsilon v_t$. Then by the definition of $v_K^+(t)$ the point $p$ is not in $K$. As $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus K$ is open, any sufficiently small open neighborhood of $p$ is disjoint from $K$, so we can take some positive $\epsilon' < \epsilon$ such that the closed line segment connecting $p$ and $q = p - \epsilon' u_t$ is disjoint from $K$ as well. Define the closed right-angled triangle $T$ with vertices $v_K^+(t)$, $p$, and $q$. Take the line $l$ that passes through both $q$ and $v_K^+(t)$. Call the two closed half-planes divided by the line $l$ as $H_T$ and $H'$, where $H_T$ is the half-plane containing $T$ and $H'$ is the other one. By definition of $H'$, the half-plane $H'$ contains $v_K^+(t)$ and $q$ on its boundary and does not contain the point $q$. And consequently $H'$ has normal angle $t' \in (t, t + \pi/2)$ ([[05. Notations and Conventions#^def-half-plane]]) because $p = v_K^+(t) + \epsilon v_t$ and $q = p - \epsilon' u_t$.

We show that $K \cap H_T \subseteq T$. Assume by contradiction that there is $r \in K \cap H_T$ not in $T$. As $r \in K$, $r$ should be in the tangential half-plane $H_K(t)$. So $r$ is in the cone $H_T \cap H_K(t)$ sharing the vertex $v_K^+(t)$ and two edge $l_K(t)$, $l$ with $T$. Since $r \not\in T$, the line segment connecting $r$ and the vertex $v_K^+(t)$ of $T$ should cross the edge of $T$ connecting $p$ and $q$ at some point $s$. As $r, v_K^+(t) \in K$ we also have $s \in K$ by convexity. But the line segment connecting $p$ and $q$ is disjoint from $K$ by the definition of $q$, so we get contradiction. Thus we have $K \cap H_T \subseteq T$.

Now take arbitrary $t_0 \in (t, t')$. We show that the edge $e_K(t_0)$ should lie inside $T$. It suffices to show that any point $z$ in $K$ that attains the maximum value of $z \cdot u_{t_0}$ is in $T$. Define the fan $F := H_K(t) \cap H'$, so that $F$ is bounded by lines $l_K(t)$ and $l$ with the vertex $v_K^+(t)$. If $z \in F$, it should be that $z = v_K^+(t) \in T$, because $v_K^+(t) \in K$ and $v_K^+(t) \cdot u_{t_0} > z \cdot u_{t_0}$ for every point $z$ in $F$ other than $z = v_K^+(t)$. If $z \in K \setminus F$ on the other hand, we have $K \setminus F = K \setminus H' \subseteq K \cap H_T \subseteq T$ so $z \in T$. This completes the proof of $e_K(t_0) \subseteq T$.

Observe that the triangle $T$ contains $v_K^+(t)$ and has diameter $< 2\epsilon$ because the two perpendicular sides of $T$ containing $p$ have length $\leq \epsilon$. So the endpoints $v_K^+(u)$ and $v_K^-(u)$ of the edge $e_K(t_0) \subseteq T$ are distance at most $2\epsilon$ away from $v_K^+(t)$. This completes the epsilon-delta argument for $\lim_{ t' \to t^+ } v_K^+(t') = \lim_{ t' \to t^+ } v_K^-(t') = v_K^+(t)$. 

From $e_K(t_0) \subseteq T$ and that the vertex $p$ of $T$ maximizes the value of $z \cdot u_{t_0}$ over all $z \in T$, we get that $p$ is either on $l_K(t_0)$ or outside the half-plane $H_K(t_0)$. On the other hand we have $v_K^+(t) \in H_K(t_0)$. So the line $l_K(t_0)$ passes through the segment connecting $p$ and $v_K^+(t)$, and the intersection $v_K(t, t_0) = l_K(t) \cap l_K(t_0)$ is inside $T$. This with that the diameter of $T$ is less than $2 \epsilon$ proves $\lim_{ t' \to t^+ } v_K(t, t') = v_K^+(t)$. □

The vertex $v_K^+(t)$ is right-continuous by [[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]].

> __Corollary [vertex-right-continuous].__ The vertex $v_K^+(t)$ is right-continuous with respect to $t \in S^1$. Likewise, the vertex $v_K^-(t)$ is left-continuous with respect to $t \in S^1$. ^cor-vertex-right-continuous

From [[05. Vertex and support function#^lem-tangent-lines-intersection-linear]] and [[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]], we have the linearlity of vertices $v_K^{\pm}(t)$.

> __Corollary [vertex-linear].__ For a fixed $t \in S^1$, the vertices $v_K^{\pm}(t)$ are linear with respect to $K$. ^cor-vertex-linear

# Parametrization of tangent line

We calculate $v_K(t, t')$ as the following.

> __Lemma [intersection-tangent-lines].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary such that $t' \neq t, t + \pi$. The following calculation holds.  ^lem-intersection-tangent-lines
$$
v_K(t, t') = p_K(t) u_{t} + \left( \frac{p_K(t') - p_K(t) \cos (t' - t)}{\sin (t' - t)} \right)  v_{t}
$$

_Proof._ Because the point $p = v_K(t, t') = l_{K}(t) \cap l_K(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$, we have $p = p_K(t) u_{t} + \beta v_{t}$ for some constant $\beta \in \mathbb{R}$. We use $p \cdot u_{t'} = p_K(t')$ to derive the unique value $\beta$. Write $t' - t$ as $\theta$.
$$
\begin{align*}
p_K(t') &= p_K(t) (u_{t} \cdot u_{t'}) + \beta (v_{t} \cdot u_{t'}) \\
&= p_K(t) \cos \theta + \beta \sin \theta
\end{align*}
$$
This gives $\beta = p_C(t') \csc \theta - p_C(t) \cot \theta$ as claimed and completes the calculation. The value $\alpha$ is continuous on $(-\pi, \pi) \setminus \left\{ 0 \right\}$ by the formula. □

Using [[05. Vertex and support function#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]], we can show that $v_K(t, t')$ parametrizes the half-lines in $l_K(t)$ emanating from $v_K^{\pm}(t)$.

> __Theorem [tangent-line-parametrization].__ Take any $t \in S^1$ and assume the width $p_K(t + \pi) + p_K(t)$ of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is strictly positive. ^thm-tangent-line-parametrization
> 
> 1. If we define $\mathbf{p} : [t, t + \pi) \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{p}(t) = v_K^+(t)$ and $\mathbf{p}(t') = v_K(t, t')$ for all $t' \in (t, t + \pi)$, then $\mathbf{p}$ is an absolutely-continuous parametrization of the half-line emanating from $v_K^+(t)$ in the direction of $v_t$. Also, $\mathbf{p}$ moves monotonically in the direction of $v_t$.
> 2. Likewise, if we define $\mathbf{q} : (t - \pi, t] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{q}(t') = v_K(t', t)$ for all $t' \in (t - \pi, t)$ and $\mathbf{q}(t) = v_K^-(t)$, then $\mathbf{q}$ is an absolutely-continuous parametrization of the half-line ending with $v_K^-(t)$ in the direction of $v_t$.

To prove [[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]], we need the following calculation.

_Proof._ (of [[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]]) We prove (1) as (2) can be proved by a symmetric argument. The function $\mathbf{p}$ is absolutely continuous on $(t, t+ \pi)$ by [[05. Vertex and support function#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]], and $\mathbf{p}$ is continuous at $t$ because of [[05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]. □

# Relation between vertex and support function

> __Theorem [vertex-formula].__ For any convex body $K$, $p_K$ is both left and right differentiable. Moreover, for any angle $t \in S^1$ the following equalities hold. ^thm-vertex-formula
$$
v_K^+(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t
$$
$$
v_K^-(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial_-p_K(t)v_t.
$$

_Proof._ We show the first equality. The last limit of [[#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] and [[#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] shows that we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
v_K^+(t) & = p_K(t)u_t + \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ }  \alpha_K(t, \theta)v_t
\end{align*}
$$
Computing the limit,
$$
\begin{align*}
\lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ }  \alpha_K(t, \theta) & = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t) \cos \theta}{\sin \theta} \\
& = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \left( \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t)}{\theta} + p_K(t) \frac{1- \cos \theta}{ \theta } \right) \cdot \frac{\theta}{\sin \theta} \\
& = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t)}{\theta}  \\
& = \partial^+p_K(t)
\end{align*} 
$$
as $(1 - \cos \theta)/\theta \to 0$ and $\theta / \sin \theta \to 1$ as $\theta \to 0$. The second inequality can be proved in a similar way. □

> __Corollary [right-differentiation-right-continuous].__ For any convex body $K$, $\partial^+ p_K$ is right-continuous. ^cor-right-differentiation-right-continuous