For any right-continuous, real-valued function $F$ of bounded variation on domain $X = \mathbb{R}$ or $S^1 = \mathbb{R} / 2\pi \mathbb{Z}$, we will rigorously define its _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ $dF$ on $X$. The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dF$ on any half-open interval $(a, b]$ calculates the difference $F(b) - F(a)$ of $F$ along the boundary.

Most literature constructs $dF$ for any right-continuous and monotonically increasing $F : \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}$ [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005; @hewittRealAbstractAnalysis2013; @halmos2013measure].

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes].__ (Theorem 3.5. of [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005]) For any right-continuous and monotonically increasing function $F : \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}$, there exists a unique measure $dF$ on $\mathbb{R}$ such that $dF((c, d]) = F(d) - F(c)$ for any half-open interval $(c, d]$ of $\mathbb{R}$.
> ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes

We will often appeal to the following lemma for the uniqueness of Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure. See p288 of [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005] for the notion of signed measure.

> __Lemma [measure-interval-uniqueness].__ Let $X$ be the domain, which is one of $\mathbb{R}$, a closed interval $[a, b]$, or the circle $S^1$. Let $\mu_1, \mu_2$ be two measures on $X$ that may or may not be signed. If $\mu_1$ and $\mu_2$ agrees on any half-open interval $(c, d]$ of $X$, and additionally $\left\{ a \right\}$ if $X = [a, b]$. Then we have $\mu_1 = \mu_2$.
> ^lem-measure-interval-uniqueness

_Proof._ If $\mu_1, \mu_2$ are measures (not signed) on $X$, then since the Borel $\sigma$-algebra of $X$ is generated by half-open intervals $I$ (and also $I = \left\{ a \right\}$ if $X = [a, b]$), we can appeal to the Carathéodory extension theorem to conclude $\mu_1 = \mu_2$. If $\mu_1, \mu_2$ are signed measures on $X$, for each $i=1, 2$ first write $\mu_i = \mu_i^+ - \mu_i^-$ as the difference of two measures on $X$ (p288 of [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005]). Then because $\mu_1(I) = \mu_2(I)$ for any half-open intervals $I$ that generate the Borel $\sigma$-algebra of $X$, the measures $\lambda_1 = \mu_1^+ + \mu_2^-$ and $\lambda_2 = \mu_2^+ + \mu_1^-$ agree on $I$. So $\lambda_1 = \lambda_2$ and in turn we have $\mu_1 = \mu_2$. □

Now let $F : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ be any right-continuous function of bounded variation, not necessarily increasing. We can still define $dF$ by allowing $dF$ to be a _signed_ measure.

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes-signed].__ For any right-continuous function $F : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation, there exists a unique signed measure $dF$ on $\mathbb{R}$ such that $dF(\left\{ a \right\}) = 0$ and $dF((c, d]) = F(d) - F(c)$ for any half-open subinterval $(c, d]$ of $[a, b]$.
> ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-signed

_Proof._ Write $F$ as the difference $F = F_1 - F_2$ of two monotonically increasing and bounded functions $F_1, F_2 : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ (Theorem 3.3, p119 of [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005]). Take the right limit on $F(x) = F_1(x) - F_2(x)$ to further assume that $F_1, F_2$ are right-continuous. Extend the domain of $F_i$ for $i=1, 2$ to $\mathbb{R}$ by letting $F_i(x) = F_i(a)$ for $x < a$ and $F_i(x) = F_i(b)$ for $x > b$. The measures $dF_1$ and $dF_2$ on $\mathbb{R}$ are well-defined by [[#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes]] and bounded on $[a, b]$. So the bounded signed measure $dF := dF_1 - dF_2$ is well-defined and satisfies $dF((c, d]) = F(d) - F(c)$ for any half-open subinterval $(c, d]$ of $[a, b]$. To check $dF(\left\{ a \right\}) = 0$, check $dF_i(\left\{ a \right\}) = F_i(a) - F_i(a-) = 0$. Appeal to [[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^lem-measure-interval-uniqueness]] for the uniqueness of $dF$. □

We now allow the domain of $F : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}$ to be $S^1$. Define $q : [0, 2\pi] \to S^1$ as the quotient map $q(t) = t + 2\pi \mathbb{Z}$ identifying the endpoints $0$ and $2\pi$. We will say that $F$ is _of bounded variation_ if and only if $F \circ q : [0, 2\pi] \to \mathbb{R}$ is of bounded variation. It is natural to define $dF$ using $d(F \circ q)$ where $F \circ q : [0, 2\pi] \to \mathbb{R}$. Recall the convention that the interval $(t_1, t_2]$ of $\mathbb{R}$ is used to denote the corresponding interval of $S^1$ mapped under $\mathbb{R} \to S^1$.

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes-circle].__ For any right-continuous function $F : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation, there exists a unique bounded signed measure $dF$ on $S^1$ such that for any half-open interval $(t_1, t_2]$ of $S^1$ with $t_1 < t_2 \leq t_1 + 2\pi$, we have $dF((t_1, t_2]) = F(t_2) - F(t_1)$. Moreover, such $dF$ is unique, and is the pushforward of $d(F \circ q)$ under the quotient map $q : [0, 2\pi] \to S^1$.
> ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-circle

_Proof._ The function $F \circ q : [0, 2\pi] \to \mathbb{R}$ is right-continuous and of bounded variation. So its Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d(F \circ q)$ on $[0, 2\pi]$ is well-defined by [[#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-signed]]. Now let $\mu$ be the pushforward of $d(F \circ q)$ under the map $q$. Take any interval $I = (t_1, t_2]$ of $S^1$ with $0 \leq t_1 < t_2 \leq 2\pi$. We have
$$
\mu(I) = d(F \circ q)(q^{-1}(I)) = d(F \circ q)((t_1, t_2]) = F(t_1) - F(t_2)
$$
because $q^{-1}(I)$ is either $(t_1, t_2]$ (if $t_2 < 2\pi$) or $\left\{ 0 \right\} \cup (t_1, t_2]$ (if $t_2 = 2\pi$), and $d(F \circ q)(\left\{ 0 \right\}) = 0$ by [[#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-signed]]. Now it suffices to show $\mu((t_1, t_2]) = F(t_2) - F(t_1)$ for the case $0 \leq t_1 \leq 2\pi \leq t_2 \leq 4\pi$ where the interval wraps around $0 = 2\pi$ in $S^1$. We have
$$
\mu((t_1, t_2]) = \mu((t_1, 2\pi]) + \mu((2\pi, t_2]) = F(2\pi) - F(t_1) + F(t_2) - F(2\pi) = F(t_2) - F(t_1)
$$
thus completing the proof. Appeal to [[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^lem-measure-interval-uniqueness]] for the uniqueness of such $dF$ on $S^1$. □

The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dF$ can be used as a justification of the differential of $F$. It satisfies the following properties that a differential is expected to satisfy.

> __Proposition [lebesgue-stieltjes-linear].__ The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dF$ on domain $\mathbb{R}$, $[a, b]$, or $S^1$ is linear with respect to $F$.
> ^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-linear

_Proof._ Let $F_1, F_2$ be arbitrary right-continuous functions of bounded variation, and $a, b$ be arbitrary real values. Observe that $d(aF_1 + bF_2)$ and $a \cdot dF_1 + b \cdot dF_2$ both agree on any half-open interval $I$, and use [[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^lem-measure-interval-uniqueness]] to conclude that they are equal. □

> __Proposition [lebesgue-stieltjes-product].__ Let $F, G$ be real-valued functions on the domain $X$ which is either $S^1$ or a closed interval of $\mathbb{R}$. Assume that both $F$ and $G$ are of bounded variation. Assume that $F$ is continuous and $G$ is right-continuous. Then $d(FG) = G dF + F dG$.
> ^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product

_Proof._ We first prove the case where $X$ is a closed interval $I$. By Proposition 4.5, Chapter 0 of [@revuzContinuousMartingalesBrownian1999], we have the integration by parts
$$
\int_{(a, b]} G(x)\, dF(x) + \int_{(a, b]} F(x-) \, dG(x) = F(b) G(b) - F(a) G(a).
$$
for any endpoints $a \leq b$ in $I$. Now use $F(x-) = F(x)$ and [[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^lem-measure-interval-uniqueness]] to conclude $d(FG) = G dF + F dG$. For the case where the domain is $X = S^1$, use the same argument for $F \circ q$ and $G \circ q$ with domain $X = [0, 2\pi]$, and apply [[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-circle]]. □