

Observe that the edge $e_K(t)$ is a segment of the line $l_K(t)$, so $l_K(t) \setminus e_K(t)$ is a union of two disjoint open half-lines. Using the previous technical lemmas, we can parametrize those half-lines by the intersection of two tangent lines.

> __Theorem [tangent-line-parametrization].__ Take any convex body $K$ and $t \in S^1$. Define $\mathbf{p} : [0, \pi) \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{p}(\theta) = l_K(t - \theta) \cap l_K(t)$ for $\theta > 0$ and $\mathbf{p}(0) = v_K^-(t)$. Likewise, define $\mathbf{q} : [0, \pi) \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{q}(\theta) = l_K(t + \theta) \cap l_K(t)$ for $0 < \theta$ and $\mathbf{q}(0) = v_K^+(t)$.
> 
> If the width $w_K(t) = p_K(t + \pi) + p_K(t)$ of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is positive, then $\mathbf{p}$ (resp. $\mathbf{q}$) is an absolutely-continuous parametrization of the ray starting from $v_K^-(t)$ (resp. $v_K^+t)$ in the direction of $-v_t$ (resp. $v_t$).
> 
> If the width $w_K(t)$ is zero, then $K$ is the line segment connecting $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_K^-(t)$, so $\mathbf{p}$ and $\mathbf{q}$ are constant functions $v_K^-(t)$ and $v_K^+(t)$ respectively. ^thm-tangent-line-parametrization

_Proof._ As $K$ is nonempty, the width $w_K(t)$ has to be nonnegative. If it is zero, then as $K$ is in the line $H_K(t) \cap H_K(t + \pi)$ we get the conclusion. Assume that the width $w_K(t)$ is strictly positive. By [[10. Surface area measure#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]] and [[10. Surface area measure#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]], we only need to show that $\alpha_K(t, \theta) \to \pm \infty$ as $\theta \to \pm \pi$. Observe that as we take $\theta \to \pm \pi$, $p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t) \cos \theta$ converges to the width $w_K(t)$, so $\alpha_K(t, \theta) \to \pm \infty$ by using the formula in [[10. Surface area measure#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]]. □

> __Theorem [vertex-monotone].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Let $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ be any angle. On the interval $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \pi]$, the value $v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t$ is monotonically decreasing. On the interval $t \in [t_0 - \pi, t_0]$, the value $v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t$ is monotonically increasing. ^thm-vertex-monotone

_Proof._ Take two arbitrary values $t_1 < t_2$ in the interval $[t_0, t_0 +  \pi]$. By [[10. Surface area measure#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]], the points $v_K^+(t_1), l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2), v_K^-(t_2), v_K^+(t_2)$ goes further in the direction of $-v_t$ in the increasing order. This shows that the value $v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t$ is monotonically decreasing on the interval $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \pi]$. A symmetric argument proves the other claim. □

> __Theorem [vertex-bounded-variation].__ On any bounded interval $t \in I$ of $\mathbb{R}$, $v_K^+(t)$ is of bounded variation. ^thm-vertex-bounded-variation

_Proof._ The $x$ and $y$-coordinates of $v_K^+(t)$ either monotonically increases or decreases on each of the intervals $[0, \pi/2]$, $[\pi/2, \pi]$, $[\pi, 3\pi/2]$, $[3\pi/2, 2\pi]$ by [[10. Surface area measure#^thm-vertex-monotone]]. So the coordinates are of bounded variation on each interval. □

We now calculate the left/right differentiation of $p_K(t)$.

> __Theorem [vertex-formula].__ For any convex body $K$, $p_K$ is both left and right differentiable. Moreover, for any angle $t \in S^1$ the following equalities hold. ^thm-vertex-formula
$$
v_K^+(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t
$$
$$
v_K^-(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial_-p_K(t)v_t.
$$

_Proof._ We show the first equality. The last limit of [[#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] and [[#^lem-intersection-tangent-lines]] shows that we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
v_K^+(t) & = p_K(t)u_t + \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ }  \alpha_K(t, \theta)v_t
\end{align*}
$$
Computing the limit,
$$
\begin{align*}
\lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ }  \alpha_K(t, \theta) & = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t) \cos \theta}{\sin \theta} \\
& = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \left( \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t)}{\theta} + p_K(t) \frac{1- \cos \theta}{ \theta } \right) \cdot \frac{\theta}{\sin \theta} \\
& = \lim_{ \theta \to 0^+ } \frac{p_K(t + \theta) - p_K(t)}{\theta}  \\
& = \partial^+p_K(t)
\end{align*} 
$$
as $(1 - \cos \theta)/\theta \to 0$ and $\theta / \sin \theta \to 1$ as $\theta \to 0$. The second inequality can be proved in a similar way. □

> __Corollary [right-differentiation-right-continuous].__ For any convex body $K$, $\partial^+ p_K$ is right-continuous. ^cor-right-differentiation-right-continuous

_Proof._ By [[#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]] and [[#^thm-vertex-formula]] we have $p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t$ right-continuous. $p_K(t)$ is continuous by [[#^thm-support-function-lipschitz]]. So subtracting and taking the dot product with continuous $v_t$ we get that $\partial^+ p_K$ is right-continuous. □

> __Corollary [right-differentiation-bounded-variation].__  For any convex body $K$, $\partial^+ p_K$ is bounded-variation. ^cor-right-differentiation-bounded-variation

_Proof._ Use that $v_K^+(t) = p_K(t)u_t + \partial^+p_K(t)v_t$ is [[#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation|bounded variation]] and that $p_K$ is [[#^thm-support-function-lipschitz|Lipschitz]]. □

> __Definition [boundary-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, define its _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ on $S^1$ as the signed measure $\beta_K(dt) = p_K(t) \cdot dt + d \left( \partial^+p_K(t) \right)$ on $S^1$. Here, $dt$ is the Lebesgue measure on $S^1$. ^def-boundary-measure

_Proof._ Note that $p_K$ is [[10. Surface area measure#^thm-support-function-lipschitz|bounded and continuous]] on $S^1$ so we can construct the measure $p_K(t) \cdot dt$ on $S^1$. We use that $\partial^+p_K(t)$ is both [[10. Surface area measure#^cor-right-differentiation-right-continuous|right-continuous]] and [[10. Surface area measure#^cor-right-differentiation-bounded-variation|bounded-variation]] to construct the [[05. Notations and conventions#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-measure-circle|Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]. □

This measure is called as the _surface area measure_ for general $n$-dimensional convex bodies. Now we prove [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]].

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]]) First, note that $v_K^+$ is both right-continuous and locally bounded-variation so it makes sense to talk about the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dv_K^+(t)$. If $\beta_K$ is defined as [[10. Surface area measure#^def-boundary-measure]], the following chain of equalities justify $dv_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$.
$$
\begin{align*}
v_t  \beta_K(dt) & = v_t p_K(t) dt + v_t  d\left( \partial^+ p_K(t) \right)  \\
& = v_t p_K(t) dt + d\left( v_t \partial^+ p_K(t) \right) - (-u_t) \partial^+ p_K(t) dt \\
& = v_t p_K(t) dt + d\left( v_t \partial^+ p_K(t) \right) + d \left( u_t p_K(t)  \right) - v_t p_K(t) dt  \\
& = d\left( v_t \partial^+ p_K(t) + u_t p_K(t) \right) = dv_K^+(t)
\end{align*}
$$

The first equality ues [[#^def-boundary-measure]]. The second and third equality uses [[05. Notations and conventions#^cor-product-rule-differential]]. The rest uses linearity and definition. The equality
$$
\int_{(a, b]} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) 
$$
comes from the definition of $dv_K^+(t)$. The inequality
$$
\int_{[a, b]} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^-(a) 
$$
comes from taking the left limit of $a$ in the first equality and using [[10. Surface area measure#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]] on the right side.

We still haven't showed two things. First is that $\beta_K$ is non-negative so is a measure which is not signed. Second is that this $\beta_K$ defined using [[10. Surface area measure#^def-boundary-measure]] is the only measure that satisfies the vertex formulas.

We first show that $\beta_K$ defined using [[10. Surface area measure#^def-boundary-measure]] is non-negative. We only need to show that $\beta_K$ is non-negative near any $t \in\mathbb{R}$. Take the interval $I = \left( t - \pi/4, t + \pi/4 \right)$. Consider the function $f(u) = \cos(u - t)$ on $I$. Both $f$ and $1/f$ are bounded continous functions on $I$. Also for any $a, b \in I$ such that $a < b$, $\int_{(a, b]} f(u) \beta_K(du) = \left( v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) \right) \cdot v_t$ is nonnegative by [[10. Surface area measure#^thm-vertex-monotone]]. So $f \cdot \beta_K$ is nonnegative on $I$, and $(1/f) \cdot f \cdot \beta_K = \beta_K$ is also nonnegative on $I$.

Finally, we observe that the $\beta_K$ satisfying the vertex formula $d v_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$ is unique because $v_t \cdot d v_K^+(t) = \beta_K(dt)$ determines $\beta_K$ uniquely. □

We end by showing that multiple values attached to a convex body $K$ is linear in terms of $K$ ([[yy. Geometric Results#^def-convex-body-linear]]).

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]]) The support function $p_K$ is linear in $K$. If $t_1, t_2 \in S^1$ are two different angles, the intersection $p = l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2)$ is linear in $K$ because $p$ is the unique point satisfying $p \cdot u_{t_1} = p_K(t_1)$ and $p \cdot u_{t_2} = p_K(t_2)$. The vertices $v_K^+$ and $v_K^-$ are linear in $K$ because they are the limits of intersection points as in [[yy. Geometric Results#^def-convex-body-linear]]. The boundary measure $\beta_K$ is linear in $K$ because $v_t \cdot d v_K^+(t) = \beta_K(dt)$. □