> __Definition [surface-area-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, denote the _surface area measure_ of $K$ as $\sigma_K$.
> ^def-surface-area-measure

A full definition of the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ is given in p214 of [[@schneider_2013]], which is also denoted as $S_1(K, -)$ or $S_K$ in p464 of [[@schneider_2013]]. For any convex body $K$, the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ is a measure on $S^1$ that essentially measures the side lengths of $K$. For example, if $K$ is a convex polygon, then $\sigma_K$ is a discrete measure such that the measure $\sigma_K\left( t \right)$ at point $t$ is the length of the edge $e_K(t)$. Assume the other case where for every $t \in S^1$, the tangent line $l_K(t)$ always meets $K$ at a single point $v(t)$, so that $\partial K$ is parametrized smoothly by $v_K(t)$ for $t \in S^1$. Then it turns out that $\sigma_K(dt) = R(t) dt$ where $R(t) = \left\lVert v'(t) \right\rVert$ is the radius of curvature of $\partial K$ at $v(t)$.

We now collect theorems on the surface area measure $\sigma_K$.

> __Theorem [surface-area-measure-convex-linear].__ (Equation (8.23), p464 of [[@schneider_2013]]) The surface area measure $\sigma_K$ is convex-linear with respect to $K$. ^thm-surface-area-measure-convex-linear

Note that for any measurable function $f$ on a space $X$ and a measure $\sigma$ on $X$, we denote the integral of $f$ with respect to $\sigma$ as $\left< f, \sigma \right>_{X} = \int_{x \in X} f(x)\,\sigma(dx)$.

> __Theorem [surface-area-measure-area].__ (Theorem 5.1.7 in p280 of [[@schneider_2013]]) The mixed volume $V(K_1, K_2)$ of any two planar convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$ can be represented as the following. ^thm-surface-area-measure-area
$$
V(K_1, K_2) = \left< p_{K_1}, \sigma_{K_2} \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$
> Consequently, the area $|K|$ of any planar convex body $K$ can be represented as the following.
$$
|K| = V(K, K) = \left< p_K, \sigma_K \right>_{S^1} / 2
$$

We prove the following important _vertex equality_ of $K$ using $\sigma_K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure].__ For every interval $(t_1, t_2]$ in $S^1$ of length $\leq 2\pi$, we have the following equality. ^thm-boundary-measure
$$
v_K^+(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} v_t \, \sigma_K(dt)
$$

_Proof._ First we observe that the equality holds when $K$ is a polygon. In this case, for every $t$ the value $\sigma_K(t)$ is nonzero if and only if it measures the length of a proper edge $e_K(t)$. So the right-hand side measures the sum of all vectors from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ along the proper edges $e_K(t)$ with angles $t \in (t_1, t_2]$. The sum in the right-hand side is then the vector from $v_K^+(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$, justifying the equality for polygon $K$.  

Now we prove the equality for general $K$. As in the proof of Theorem 8.3.3, p466 of [[@schneider_2013]], we can take a series $K_1, K_2, \dots$ of polygons converging to $K$ in the Hausdorff distance such that $e_{K_n}(t_i) = e_{K}(t_i)$ for all $n = 1, 2, \dots$ and $i = 1, 2$. In particular, we have $v_{K_n}^{\pm}(t_i) = v_{K}^{\pm}(t_i)$ and $\sigma_{K_n}(\{t_i\}) = \sigma_{K}(\{t_i\})$ for all $n = 1, 2, \dots$ and $i = 1, 2$. By Theorem 4.2.1, p212 of [[@schneider_2013]], the measures $\sigma_{K_n}$ converge to $\sigma_K$ weakly as $n \to \infty$.

For any measure $\sigma$ on $S^1$ and a Borel subset $A$ of $S^1$, define the _restriction_ $\sigma|_A$ of $\sigma$ to $A$ as the measure defined as $\sigma|_A(X) = \sigma(A \cap X)$. Define $U$ as the open set $S^1 \setminus \left\{ t_1, t_2 \right\}$ of $S$, and $V$ as the open interval $(t_1, t_2)$ of $S^1$. Define $\mu_n$ and $\mu$ as the restriction of $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ to $U$, then $\mu_n$ converges to $\mu$ weakly as $n \to \infty$ because $\sigma_{K_n}(\{t_i\}) = \sigma_{K}(\{t_i\})$ for $i = 1, 2$. Define $\lambda_n$ and $\lambda$ as the restriction of $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ to $V$. We want to prove that $\lambda_n \to \lambda$ weakly as $n \to \infty$. Take any continuity set $X$ of $\lambda$ so that $\lambda(\partial X) = 0$ and thus $\mu(\partial X \cap V) = 0$. Because $\partial(X \cap V) \subseteq (\partial X \cap V) \cup \partial V$, and both $\mu(\partial X \cap V)$ and $\mu(\partial V)$ are zero, the set $X \cap V$ is a continuity set of $\mu$. So $\mu_n(X \cap V) \to \mu(X \cap V)$ and thus $\lambda_n(X) \to \lambda(X)$ as $n \to \infty$. This completes the proof that $\lambda_n \to \lambda$ weakly as $n \to \infty$.

We finally take the limit $n \to \infty$ to the equality
$$
v_{K_n}^+(t_2) - v_{K_n}^+(t_1) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} v_t \, \sigma_{K_n}(dt)
$$
for polygons $K_n$. The left-hand side is equal to $v_K^+(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1)$ by the way how we took $K_n$. The right-hand side is equal to
$$
(v_{K_n}^+(t_2) - v_{K_n}^-(t_2)) + \int_{t \in S^1} v_t \, \lambda_n(dt)
$$
and by $v_{K_n}^{\pm}(t_i) = v_{K}^{\pm}(t_i)$ and the weak convergence $\lambda_n \to \lambda$, the expression converges to
$$
(v_{K}^+(t_2) - v_{K}^-(t_2)) + \int_{t \in S^1} v_t \, \lambda(dt) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} v_t\, \sigma_{K}(dt)
$$
thus completing the proof for general $K$. □

[[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] has the following concise representation in differentials via the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure.

> __Corollary [boundary-measure-differential].__ We have $dv_K^+(t) = v_t \sigma_K(dt)$. ^cor-boundary-measure-differential

That is, if we write the coordinates of $v_K^+(t)$ as $(x(t), y(t))$, then the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $dx$ and $dy$ of $x(t)$ and $y(t)$ are $-\sin t \cdot \sigma_K(dt)$ and $\cos t \cdot \sigma_K(dt)$ respectively. Note that $dx$ and $dy$ are well-defined because $v_K^+(t)$ is of bounded variation ([[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation]]) and right-continuous ([[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^cor-vertex-right-continuous]]). The proof of [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-differential]] is immediate from checking that [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] matches with the definition of $d v_K^+(t)$.

Surface area measure at a single point $t$ measures the length of the edge $e_K(t)$.

> __Theorem [surface-area-singleton].__ $\sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\})$ is equal to the length of the edge $e_K(t)$. Moreover, $v_K^+(t) = v_K^-(t) + \sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\}) v_t$. ^thm-surface-area-singleton

_Proof._ Let $t_2 = t$ and send $t_1 \to t^-$ in [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. Then by [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]] we get the equation $v_K^+(t) = v_K^-(t) + \sigma_K(\left\{ t \right\}) v_t$. □

We also have the following closed and open interval versions of [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]. They are corollaries of [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] and [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-singleton]].

> __Corollary [boundary-measure-closed].__ For every interval $[t_1, t_2]$ in $S^1$ of length $< 2\pi$, we have the following equality. ^cor-boundary-measure-closed
$$
v_K^+(t_2) - v_K^-(t_1) = \int_{t \in [t_1, t_2]} v_t \, \sigma_K(dt)
$$

> __Corollary [boundary-measure-open].__ For every interval $(t_1, t_2)$ in $S^1$ of length $\leq 2\pi$, we have the following equality. ^cor-boundary-measure-open
$$
v_K^-(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1) = \int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} v_t \, \sigma_K(dt)
$$

Apply $t_1 = t, t_2 = t + \pi$ to [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] and take the dot product with $-u_t$ to get the following.

> __Corollary [boundary-measure-width].__ For any angle $t \in S^1$, the width $p_K(t) + p_K(t + \omega)$ of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is equal to the following. ^cor-boundary-measure-width
$$
\int_{u \in (t, t + \pi)} \sin(u - t) \, \sigma_K(dt)
$$