If $K$ has nonempty interior, it occurs naturally that the boundary $\partial K$ is a Jordan curve bounding $K$ in its interior. So for any different $p, q \in \partial K$, we can think of a Jordan arc $\mathbf{b}$ connecting $p$ and $q$ along the boundary $\partial K$. However, constructing a rectifiable parametrization of $\mathbf{b}$ requires some work. For every $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$, we will define $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ as essentially the curve connecting $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ along the boundary $\partial K$ counterclockwise. The full definition of $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0, t_1}$ is technical will be given much later. Instead, we start by stating all the properties that agrees naturally with our intuition.

> __Theorem [param-segment].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Then $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ is an arc-length parametrization of the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \bigcup \cup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$ from point $v_K^+(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$. ^thm-param-segment

> __Theorem [param-segment-length].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Then the curve $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ have length $\beta_K((t_0, t_1])$. ^thm-param-segment-length

> __Theorem [param-concatenation].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0, t_1, t_2$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0, t_2}$ is the concatenation of $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_1, t_2}$. ^thm-param-concatenation

> __Theorem [param-positive-jordan].__ Assume that $K$ have nonempty interior. For every $t \in \mathbb{R}$, the curve $\mathbf{b}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is a positively oriented, arc-length parametrization of the boundary $\partial K$ as a Jordan curve that starts and ends with the point $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-param-positive-jordan

Correspondingly, for every $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$ we will define $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ as the curve connecting $v_K^-(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ along the boundary $\partial K$ counterclockwise. We delegate its definition too and instead state the properties that agree with our intuition. 

> __Theorem [closed-param-segment].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$. Then $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ is an arc-length parametrization of the set $\cup_{t \in [t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$ from point $v_K^-(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$. ^thm-closed-param-segment

> __Theorem [closed-param-segment-length].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$. Then the curve $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ have length $\beta_K([t_0, t_1])$. ^thm-closed-param-segment-length

> __Theorem [closed-param-concatenation].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0, t_1, t_2$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 < t_0 + 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0-, t_2}$ is the concatenation of $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0-, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_1, t_2}$. ^thm-closed-param-concatenation

This theorem connects the boundary measure of $K$ to the area of $K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-area].__ For any convex body $K$, the boundary measure satisfies the _area formula_: ^thm-boundary-measure-area
$$
\left| K \right| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{S^1}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$
> Moreover, we have the following formulas for the area functional on boundary segments. For all $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ with $t_0 < t_1 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$, we have the followings.
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{(t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$
> If $t_1 < t_0 + 2\pi$,
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0 -, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{[t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt).
$$

# Definition of parametrization

Fix an arbitrary convex body $K$ and the starting angle $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$.

> __Definition [convex-body-perimeter].__ Define $B_K = \beta_K\left( (0, 2 \pi] \right)$ as the _perimeter_ of $K$. As $\beta_K$ is a measure on $S^1$ we also observe that $B_K = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \right)$ for any $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ as well. ^def-convex-body-perimeter

We would like to construct an arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of the boundary $\partial K$ starting with the point $v_K^+(t_0)$. Take an arbitrary point $p'$ on the boundary $\partial K$. Let $s' \in [0, B_K]$ be the arc length $s'$ between $p'$ and $v_K^+(t_0)$ on $\partial K$, so that $p' = \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s')$. As the point $p'$ is on the boundary of $K$, $p'$ is inside a tangent line $l_K(t')$ for some angle $t' \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Note that the arc length $s'$ and the tangent line angle $t'$ are two different variables attached to $p' \in \partial K$. The relation between $s'$ and $t'$ cannot be described as a function from one to another: a single value of $s'$ (resp. $t'$) can have multiple possible values of $t'$ (resp. $s'$). However, the values $s'$ and $t'$ form a generalized inverse of each other as described in [[@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]] and for each $s'$ (resp. $t'$) it makes sense to find _some_ corresponding value of $t'$ (resp. $s'$). The function $s_{K, t_0}$ maps parameter $t'$ to a possible value of the parameter $s'$, and $t_{K, t_0}$ maps parameter $s'$ to $t'$ in a similar way. Our definition of $t_{K, t_0}$ corresponds to the minimum inverse $s_{K, t_0}^\wedge$ of $s_{K, t_0}$ in [[@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]].

> __Definition [st-conversion].__ Define monotonically increasing functions: ^def-st-conversion
> - $s_{K, t_0} : [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \to [0, B_K]$ as $s_{K, t_0}(t) = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right)$
> - and $t_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ as $t_{K, t_0}(s) = \min \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$.

_Proof._ It is easy to check that $s_{K, t_0}$ is monotonically increasing. To see the well-definedness of $t_{K, t_0}$ as a function, we only need to observe that for any $s \in [0, B_K]$ the minimum value $t$ of the set $X = \left\{ t \in \mathbb{R} : \beta\left( (a, t] \right) \geq s \right\}$ is well-defined. As $\beta((a, t])$ is monotonically increasing, zero at $t=a$, and $B_K$ at $t=a + 2\pi$ the set $X$ is nonempty. The infimum of $X$ is contained in $X$ because $\beta_K((t_0, t])$ is right-continuous with respect to $t$. That $t_{K, t_0}$ is monotonically increasing follows immediately from the definition of $t_{K, t_0}$. □

> __Definition [parametrization-formal].__ Define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the following absolutely continuous (and thus rectifiable) function with initial condition $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(0) = v_K^+(t_0)$ and the derivative $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0}(s') = u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')}$ almost everywhere. ^def-parametrization-formal
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s) := v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s]} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds'
$$

As $t_{K, t_0}$ is a monotone function which is well-defined on $[0, B_K]$, it is a Borel function and the integral is well-defined. By a criterion of absolute continuity, $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is absolutely continous with the derivative $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0}(s') = u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')}$ almost everwhere. Length of an absolutely continuous curve $\mathbf{x}$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the integral of $| | \mathbf{x}'(t) | |$ [[@jones2001lebesgue]]. So we have the following.

> __Theorem [parametrization-arc-length].__ The function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is an arc-length parametrization. ^thm-parametrization-arc-length

The following is a technical computation.

> __Lemma [parametrization-set-calculation].__ The followings hold. ^lem-parametrization-set-calculation
> 
> - For any $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$, we have $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)] = [0, \beta_K\left( (t_0, t_1] \right)]$.
> - Moreover, the set $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_1 \right\})$ is either $[s_{K, t_0}(t_1-), s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$ or $(s_{K, t_0}(t_1-), s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$.

_Proof._ The first statement comes from manipulating the definitions as the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) & = \left\{ s \in [0, B_K] : \min \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \beta\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\} \in [t_0, t_1] \right\} \\
& = \left\{ s \in [0, B_K] :  \beta\left( (t_0, t_1] \right) \geq s \right\} \\
& = [0, \beta_K((t_0, t_1])] = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]
\end{align*}
$$

Now send $t \to t_1^-$ in the equality $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t]) = [0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ to get that $t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1)) = \bigcup_{t < t_1} [0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is either $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1-))$ or $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1-)]$. Then use $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_1 \right\}) = t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) \setminus t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t_1))$ to get the second statement of the lemma. □

> __Theorem [parametrization-vertex].__ $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t)) = v_{K}^+(t)$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Moreover, for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ the function $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ restricted to the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-parametrization-vertex

_Proof._ The first statement of [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]] shows that the measure $\beta_K$ on $(t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure on $(0, B_K]$ with respect to the map $t_{K, t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. With this, we have the following calculation.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s_{K, t_0}(t)) & = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t)]} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}([t_0, t])} u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{t \in(t_0, t]} u_t \, \beta(dt) = v^+_K(t)
\end{align*}
$$
For the proof of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$, send $t' \to t^-$ in the equation $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s_{K, t_0}(t')) = v_{K}^+(t')$ and use [[10. Surface area measure#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]]. From the second statement of [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]], we get that on the interval $s' \in (s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ the value $t_{K, t_0}(s')$ is equal to $t$. So the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s')$ restricted to the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ is almost everywhere equal to $u_t$, and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ on the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$. □

> __Definition [boundary-segment-parametrization].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ as the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s)$ restricted on the interval $s \in [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$. ^def-boundary-segment-parametrization

Observe that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + 2\pi}$ is $\mathbf{x}_{K, t}$ because $s_{K, t}(t + 2\pi) = \beta((t, t + 2\pi]) = B_K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-segment-parametrization].__ $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the arc-length parametrization from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ of the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$. Moreover, if we define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1 -}$ as the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}(s)$ resticted on the interval $s \in [0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1 -)]$, then $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1 -}$ and the edge $e_K(t)$ directed from $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization

_Proof._ The interval $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$ is equal to the inverse image $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} ([t_0, t_1])$, and so is the disjoint union of the singleton $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t_0 \right\}) = \left\{ 0 \right\}$ and the intervals $t_{K, t_0} ^{-1} (\left\{ t \right\})$ whose closure is $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$. Under the map $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$, the singleton $\left\{ 0 \right\}$ maps to $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\}$ and the set $[s_{K, t_0}(t-), s_{K, t_0}(t)]$ maps to $e_K(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ by [[#^thm-parametrization-vertex]]. This proves that the image of the interval $[0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$ under the map $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ is the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$. That $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1 -}$ and the edge $e_K(t)$ directed from $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ is a direct consequence of [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-vertex]]. □

> __Theorem [parametrization-joins].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1, t_2 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$, the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_2}$ is the join of the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1, t_2}$. ^thm-parametrization-joins

_Proof._ The curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}$ is an initial part of the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_2}$. So it remains to show that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0}$ restricted to the interval $[s_{K, t_0}(t_1), s_{K, t_0}(t_2)]$ is $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1}$ restricted to $[0, s_{K, t_1}(t_2)]$. Observe that the interval lengths match by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-st-conversion]]. The initial point of the two curves is equal to $v_K^+(t_1)$ by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-vertex]]. We show that their derivatives match, that $\mathbf{x}'_{K, t_0}(t + s_{K, t_0}(t_1)) = \mathbf{x}'_{K, t_1}(t)$ for all $t \in [0, s_{K, t_1}(t_2)]$. By the definition of $s_{K, t_0}(t) = \beta_K\left( (t_0, t] \right)$ and [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-parametrization-formal]], it remains to show that $t_{K, t_0}(t + s_{K, t_0}(t_1)) = t_{K, t_1} (t)$. This can be checked using the definition of $t_{K, t_0}$ and $t_{K, t_1}$. □

The boundary $\partial K$ is the union of all the edges.

> __Theorem [boundary-is-union-all-edges].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Then the topological boundary $\partial K$ of $K$ as a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the union of all edges $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. ^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges

_Proof._ Let $E = \cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. $E \subseteq \partial K$ comes from $E \subseteq K$ and that any point in $E$ is on some tangent line of $K$ so its neighborhood contains a point outside $K$. Now take any point $p \in \partial K$. As $K$ is closed we have $p \in K$. So $p \cdot u_t \leq p_K(t)$ for any $t \in S^1$. Assume that the equality does not hold for any $t \in S^1$. Then by compactness of $S^1$ and continuity of $p_K$ there is some $\epsilon > 0$ such that $\epsilon \leq p_K(t) - p\cdot u_t$ for any $t$. This implies that the ball of radius $\epsilon$ centered at $p$ is contained in $K$. This contradicts $p \in \partial K$. So it should be that there is some $t \in S^1$ such that $p \cdot u_t = p_K(t)$. That is, $p \in e_K(t)$. □

_Proof._ (of [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-positive-jordan]]) By [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-joins]] the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t} = \mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + 2\pi}$ is the join of two curves $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ connecting $p = v_{K}^+(t)$ and $q = v_K^+(t + \pi)$ and vice versa. As $K$ has nonempty interior, the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is strictly positive, and the point $p$ is strictly further than the point $q$ in the direction of $u_t$.

We first show that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is a Jordan arc from $p$ to $q$. The curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is the join of the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi-}$ and $e_{K}(t + \pi)$ by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization]]. Also, the derivative $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi-}'(s')$ for an arbitary $s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1 + \pi -))$ is always a unit vector $v_{t'}$ where $t' = t_{K, t}(s') \in (t, t + \pi)$ so the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi-}$ is strictly monotonically decrasing in the direction of $u_t$. This with the fact that $e_K(t + \pi)$ is parallel to $u_t$ shows that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is injective and thus a Jordan arc. A similar argument shows that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ is also a Jordan arc.

Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the half-planes divided by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. We first observe that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t+\pi}$ is in $H_0$: as the image of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t+\pi}$ is the point $p$ and the union of edges $e_K(t_1)$ for all $t_1 \in (t, t+\pi]$ by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization]], and as $p, q \in K$ and $t_1 \in (t, t + \pi]$ the edges $e_K(t_1)$ should lie in $H_0$. A similar argument shows that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t+\pi, t+2\pi}$ is in $H_1$.

If $K$ contains the point $r$ which is in the interior of $H_0$, then by convexity of $K$ the triangle $pqr$ is contained in $K$. Note again that the image of $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t+\pi}$ is the point $p$ and the union of edges $e_K(t_1)$ for all $t_1 \in (t, t+\pi]$ by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization]]. Each edge $e_K(t_1)$ can only intersect with the line $l$ at the points $p$ or $q$ because the triangle $pqr$ is inside $K$. So if $K$ contains some point in the interior of $H_0$, then the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t+\pi}$ connects $p$ and $q$ only using the points in the interior of $H_0$. Similarly, if $K$ contains some point in the interior of $H_1$, then the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ connects $q$ and $p$ only using the points in the interior of $H_1$. Because $K$ has nonempty interior, $K$ contains a point in the interior of either $H_0$ or $H_1$. So in either case the Jordan arcs $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ overlap only at the endpoints. This completes the proof that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t}$ is a Jordan curve. That $\mathbf{x}_{K, t}$ is an arc-length parametrization is [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-arc-length]]. That $\mathbf{x}_{K, t}$ is positively oriented is a consequence of [[yy. Geometric Results#^lem-orientation]]. Finally, use [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization]] and [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]] to conclude that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t}$ parametrizes the boundary $\partial K$. □

Now we are ready to prove the results we claimed on the boundary of $K$.

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-parametrization]]) The theorem is a combination of [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]] and [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-positive-jordan]]. □

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-parametrization-segment]]) This theorem is a combination of [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-boundary-segment-parametrization]] and [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-joins]]. To show that the function $\mathbf{x}_{K, v_K^-(t_1), v_K^+(t_2)}$ parametrizes the set $\bigcup_{t \in [t_1, t_2]} e_K(t)$, take $t_0 = t_2 - 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{x}_{t_0, t_2}$ parametrizes $\partial K$, and is a join of $\mathbf{x}_{t_0, t_1-}$, the edge $e_K(t_1)$, and $\mathbf{x}_{t_1, t_2}$ by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-joins]]. □

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-parametrization-segment-closed]]) Define $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1 -, t_2}$ as the join of $e_K(t_1)$ and $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1, t_2}$, where $e_K(t_1)$ is arc-length parametrized from $v_K^-(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$. So it parametrizes $\bigcup_{t \in [t_1, t_2]} e_K(t)$ from $v_K^-(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$ by definition.

Let $t_0 = t_2 - 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{x}_{t_0, t_2}$ parametrizes $\partial K$, and is a join of $\mathbf{x}_{t_0, t_1-}$, the edge $e_K(t_1)$, and $\mathbf{x}_{t_1, t_2}$ by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-joins]] and [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-segment-parametrization]]. That is, $\mathbf{x}_{t_0}$ is the join of $\mathbf{x}_{t_0, t_1 -}$ and $\mathbf{x}_{t_1 -, t_2}$. This shows that $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_1 -, t_2}$ is either a Jordan arc or curve. □

We compute the area functional of the boundary parametrizations.

> __Theorem [boundary-segment-area-functional].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. The boundary segment $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}(s)$ of $K$ from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ has the following area functional. ^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t') \, \beta(dt') = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in (t_0, t_1]} v_K^+(t') \times dv_K^+(t')
$$

Here, the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d v_K^+(t)$ is well-defined from [[10. Surface area measure#^thm-vertex-bounded-variation]]  and [[10. Surface area measure#^lem-limits-converging-to-vertex]].

_Proof._ Take any $s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]$. Let $t' = t_{K, t_0}(s')$ and observe that $t' \in (t_0, t_1]$ and $s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}(\left\{ s' \right\})$. Then as $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \in e_K(t')$ by [[#^thm-parametrization-vertex]], we have $\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \times v_{t'} = p_K(t')$. So we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1} \right) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s' \in (0, s_{K, t_0}(t_1)]} \mathbf{x}_{K, t_0} (s') \times u_{t_{K, t_0}(s')} \, ds' \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s' \in t_{K, t_0}^{-1}((t_0, t_1])} p_K(t_{K, t_0}(s')) \, ds' \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t' \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t') \, \beta(dt')
\end{align*}
$$
The last equality uses that the measure $\beta_K$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure with respect to the map $t_{K, t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ ([[15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]]). This proves the first equality stated in the theorem. To show the second equality in the statement, check $v_K(t') \times dv_K^+(t') = v_K^+(t') \times v_{t'} \beta_K(dt') = p_K(t') \beta(dt')$. □

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure-area]]) The second equation is exactly [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-segment-area-functional]]. By Green's theorem ([[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-green]]) and [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-parametrization-positive-jordan]] we have $|K| = I(\mathbf{x}_{K, 0})$. This with the second equation proves the first equation.

The last equation comes from the second equality and $I(v_K^-(t_0), v_K^+(t_0)) = p_K(t_0) \beta_K(\left\{ t_0 \right\})/2$. Observe $v_K^+(t_0) = v_K^-(t_0) + v_{t_0} \beta_K(\left\{ t_0 \right\})$ from [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]] on the interval $[t_0, t_0]$. □

# Jordan Curve

Recall the following two standard theorems.

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ (Jordan curve theorem. Theorem 8-40 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]) Any Jordan curve $J$ divides the complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus J$ into two connected components: an unbounded region $\mathcal{U}(J)$, and a bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$. Their boundaries are both $J$. ^thm-jordan-curve

The following theorem is a special case of Green's theorem.

> __Theorem [green].__ (Theorem 10-43 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]] with $P = -y/2$ and $Q=x/2$) If $J$ is a Jordan curve with a positively oriented, rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, then the area of the bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$ can be computed as the following. ^thm-green
$$
\left| \mathcal{B}(J) \right| = I(\mathbf{x})
$$

Any Jordan curve is either positively or negatively oriented. Although we won't provide the precise definition of the orientation of a Jordan curve (e.g. [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]), we use the following lemma to determine the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Lemma [orientation].__ Let $p$ and $q$ be two different points of $\mathbb{R}^2$. Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the closed half-planes separated by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. If a Jordan curve $J$ consists of the join of two arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$, where $\Gamma_0$ connects $p$ to $q$ inside $H_0$, and $\Gamma_1$ connects $q$ to $p$ inside $H_1$, then $J$ is positively oriented. ^lem-orientation

_Proof._ (sketch) We first show that it is safe to assume the case where $J$ only intersects $l$ at two points $p$ and $q$. Observe that $H_i$ has a deformation retract to some subset $S_i \subseteq H_i$ with $S_i \cap l = \left\{ p, q \right\}$ (push the three segments of $l \setminus \{p, q\}$ towards the interior of $H_i$). Using the retracts, we may continuously deform the arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$ inside $S_0$ and $S_1$ respectively without chainging the orientation of $J$. Now take any point $r$ inside the segment connecting $p$ and $q$. Continuously move a point $x$ inside $J$ in the orientation of $J$ starting with $x = p$. As $x$ moves along $\Gamma_0$ from $p$ to $q$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ increases by $\pi$. And as $x$ moves along $\Gamma_1$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ again increases by $\pi$. So the total increase in the argument of $x \in J$ is $2\pi$ and $J$ is positively oriented. □