This section defines the _normal angles_ of a convex body $K$.

> __Definition [convex-set-support].__ Define the set of _normal angles_ $\mathbf{n}(K)$ as the support of the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ on $S^1$. ^def-convex-set-support

If $K$ is a convex polygon, $\mathbf{n}(K)$ is the collection of all angles $t$ such that each $u_t$ is a normal vector of a proper edge of $K$. The notion $\mathbf{n}(K)$ generalizes this to arbitrary convex body $K$. For an example, take the semicircle $K = \left\{ (x, y) : x^2 + y^2 \leq 1, y \geq 0 \right\}$. Then the normal angles of $K$ is the set $[0, \pi] \cup {3\pi/2}$.

We now collect theorems on $\mathbf{n}(K)$.

> __Lemma [vertex-in-half-plane].__ Let $(t_1, t_2)$ be any open interval of $S^1$ of length $< \pi$. Then for every $t \in S^1 \setminus (t_1, t_2)$, we have $v_K(t_1, t_2) \in H_K(t)$. ^lem-vertex-in-half-plane

_Proof._ Let $p = v_K(t_1, t_2)$. We can either assume $t_1 - \pi < t < t_1$ or $t_2 < t < t_2 + \pi$. In the first case, the points $v_K(t_1, t)$ and $p$ are on the line $l_K(t_1)$ and $p$ is further than $v_K(t_1, t)$ in the direction of $v_{t_1}$. Since $v_K(t_1, t) \in H_K(t)$ we now should have $p \in H_K(t)$. In the second case, the points $v_K(t, t_2)$ and $p$ are on the line $l_K(t_2)$ and $v_K(t, t_2)$ is further than $p$ in the direction of $v_{t_2}$. Since $v_K(t, t_2) \in H_K(t)$ we now have $p \in H_K(t)$. □

> __Theorem [convex-set-support-disjoint].__ Let $K$ be a convex body, and let $(t_1, t_2)$ be any open interval of $S^1$ of length $< \pi$. The followings are equivalent. ^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint
> 
> 1. $(t_1, t_2)$ is disjoint from $\mathbf{n}(K)$
> 2. There is a single point $p$ so that we have $v_K^+(t) = v_K^-(t) = p$ for all $t \in (t_1, t_2)$.
> 3. Every tangent line $l_K(t)$ passes through a common point $p$ for $t \in [t_1, t_2]$.
> 4. $v_K(t_1, t_2) \in K$

_Proof._ (1 $\Rightarrow$ 2) Let $p = v_K^+(t_1)$. Then $v_K^-(t_2) = p$ as well by [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-open]]. We also have $p = v_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ by [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] on the interval $(t_1, t]$ and [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-open]] on the interval $(t_1, t)$.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 1) By [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]] we also have $v_K^+(t_1) = v_K^-(t_2) = p$. By [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^cor-boundary-measure-open]] we have the integral $\int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} v_t \, \sigma_K(dt) = v_K^-(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1)$ equal to $0$. Now $\sigma_K$ has to be zero on $(t_1, t_2)$, or otherwise the integral taken the dot product with $-u_{t_1}$ should be nonzero as well.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 3) follows from that every edge $e_K(t)  = l_K(t) \cap K$ is the segment connecting $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 4) The point $p$ that every tangent line $l_K(t)$ of $t \in [t_1, t_2]$ pass through should be $l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2) = v_K(t_1, t_2)$. We have $p \in H_K(t)$ for all $t \in [t_1, t_2]$. We also have $p \in H_K(t)$ for all $t \in S^1 \setminus (t_1, t_2)$ by [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles#^lem-vertex-in-half-plane]]. Now $p \in \bigcap_{t \in S^1} H_K(t) = K$.

(4 $\Rightarrow$ 2) Let $p := v_K(t_1, t_2)$ and define the cone $F = H_K(t_1) \cap H_K(t_2)$ pointed at $p$. Take any $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. Then the value of $z \cdot u_t$ over all $z \in F$ has a unique maximum at $z = p$. Because $p \in K \subseteq F$, the value of $z \cdot u_t$ over all $z \in K$ also has a unique maximum at $z = p$. This means that $e_K(t) = \left\{ p \right\}$, completing the proof. □

> __Theorem [convex-set-support].__ Let $\Pi$ be any closed subset of $S^1$ such that $S^1 \setminus \Pi$ is a disjoint union of open intervals of length $< \pi$. Then for any convex body $K$, the followings are equivalent. ^thm-convex-set-support
> 
> 1. $K = \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$
> 2. $\mathbf{n}(K)$ is contained in $\Pi$.

_Proof._ (1 $\Rightarrow$ 2) Let $(t_1, t_2)$ be any connected component of $S^1 \setminus \Pi$. Then the interval has length $< \pi$ by assumption. Now take any $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. The vertex $v_K(t_1, t_2)$ is in $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t) = K$ by [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles#^lem-vertex-in-half-plane]]. So by [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]], $(t_1, t_2)$ is disjoint from $\mathbf{n}(K)$. Since $(t_1, t_2)$ was an arbitrary connected component of $S^1 \setminus \Pi$, we are done.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 1) It suffices to show that $\bigcap_{u \in \Pi} H_K(u) \subseteq H_K(t)$ for all $t \in S^1$. Once this is shown, we can take intersection over all $t \in S^1$ to conclude $K \subseteq \bigcap_{u \in \Pi} H_K(u) \subseteq K$.

If $t \in \Pi$, then we obviously have $\bigcap_{u \in \Pi} H_K(u) \subseteq H_K(t)$ so the proof is done. Now take any $t \in S^1 \setminus \Pi$ and let $(t_1, t_2)$ be the connected component of $S^1 \setminus \Pi$ containing $t$. By condition 4 of [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]] the half-plane $H_K(t)$ contains the intersection $F := H_K(t_1) \cap H_K(t_2)$. Observe $t_1, t_2 \in \Pi$. So $\bigcap_{u \in \Pi} H_K(u) \subseteq F \subseteq H_K(t)$ for all $t \in S^1 \setminus \Pi$, completing the proof. □

The following theorem is known as the Gauss-Minkowski theorem ([[@marckert2014compact]]; Theorem 8.3.1, p465 of [[@schneider_2013]]). It gives a bijection between any convex body $K$ and its boundary measure $\sigma_K$.

> __Theorem [gauss-minkowski].__ (Gauss-Minkowski) For any finite Borel measure $\sigma$ on $S^1$ with $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \sigma (dt) = 0$ there is a unique convex body $K$ with $\sigma_K = \sigma$ up to translations of $K$. ^thm-gauss-minkowski

By [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles#^def-convex-set-support]], we immediately get the following restriction of [[A1. Convex bodies/20. Normal angles#^thm-gauss-minkowski]] in normal angles.

> __Corollary [supported-gauss-measure].__ Let $\Pi$ be any closed subset of $S^1$. For any finite Borel measure $\sigma$ on $\Pi$ such that $\int_{\Pi} v_t\,\sigma(dt) = 0$, there is a convex body $K$ with normal angles $\mathbf{n}(K)$ in $\Pi$ such that $\sigma_K|_{\Pi} = \sigma$ ([[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^def-measure-restriction]]), which is unique up to translations of $K$. ^cor-supported-gauss-measure