The following theorem is known as the Gauss-Minkowski theorem [[@marckert2014compact]]. It gives a bijection between any convex body $K$ and its boundary measure $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [gauss-minkowski].__ (Gauss-Minkowski) Let $p_0$ be an arbitrary point on $\mathbb{R}^2$ and $t_0 \in S^1$ be an arbitrary angle. Then any convex body $K$ with the vertex $v_K^+(t_0) = p_0$ corresponds bijectively to an arbitrary measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$ by $\beta = \beta_K$. Moreover, any convex body $K'$ such that $\beta_{K'} = \beta$ is a translation of $K$, so for any $\beta$ with $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$ there is a unique convex body $K$ with $\beta_K = \beta$ up to translations. ^thm-gauss-minkowski

The following theorems use the angular support of a convex body $K$.

> __Definition [convex-set-support].__ Define the _angular support_ of a convex body $K$ as the support of the boundary measure $\beta_K$ on $S^1$. ^def-convex-set-support

> __Theorem [convex-set-support-disjoint].__ Let $K$ be a convex body, and let $(t_1, t_2)$ be an open interval of $S^1$ of length $< \pi$. The followings are equivalent. ^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint
> 
> 1. $(t_1, t_2)$ is disjoint from the angular support of $K$
> 2. $v_K^+(t_1) = v_K^-(t_2)$
> 3. Both $v_K^+(t_1)$ and $v_K^-(t_2)$ are equal to a point $p$. Also, $p = v_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ and $p = l_K(a) \cap l_K(b)$ for every $a, b \in [t_1, t_2]$ where $a \neq b$.

_Proof._ (of [[00. Preface#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]]) 

(1 $\Leftrightarrow$ 2) From $\int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^-(t_2) - v_K^+(t_1)$ we have (1 $\Rightarrow$ 2). Conversely, if $\beta$ is not zero on $(t_1, t_2)$ then the integral $\int_{t \in (t_1, t_2)} v_t \, \beta(dt)$ is nonzero when measured in the direction of $u_{t_1}$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 2) is trivial.

(1 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Letting $p = v_K^+(t_1) = v_K^-(t_2)$, we also have $p = v_K^{\pm}(t)$ for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ as well, as $\beta$ is zero on the interval $(t_1, t_2)$. So $p$ is on the line $l_K(t)$ for every $t \in [t_1, t_2]$, and (3) follows. □

> __Theorem [convex-set-support].__ Let $\Pi$ be any closed subset of $S^1$ such that $S^1 \setminus \Pi$ is the disjoint union of open intervals of length $< \pi$. Then for any convex body $K$, $K = \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$ holds if and only if the angular support of $K$ is contained in $\Pi$. ^thm-convex-set-support

%% TODO: I know that the argument below is faulty, but the theorem is not worth thinking too much in all petty details. %%

_Proof._ (of [[00. Preface#^thm-convex-set-support]]) We have $K = \bigcap_{t \in S^1} H_K(t) \subseteq \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$ always. The equality holds if and only if for every $t$ not in $\Pi$, $H_K(t)$ contains the set $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$. Let $(t_1, t_2)$ be any connected component of $S^1 \setminus \Pi$. Then the interval has length $< \pi$ by assumption. Now take any $t \in (t_1, t_2)$. Observe that $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t) \subseteq H_K(t)$ if and only if $p = l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2) \in H_K(t)$, as $p$ is the point of $\bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$ farthest in the direction of $u_t$. Then $p \in H_K(t)$ holds for every $t \in (t_1, t_2)$ if and only if $(t_1, t_2)$ is disjoint from the angular support of $K$ by [[00. Preface#^thm-convex-set-support-disjoint]]. This completes the proof. □

The following follows immediately from [[00. Preface#^def-convex-set-support]].

> __Theorem [supported-gauss-measure].__ Let $\Pi$ be any closed subset of $S^1$ such that $S^1 \setminus \Pi$ is the disjoint union of open intervals of length $< \pi$. The correspondence in [[#^thm-gauss-minkowski]] maps the convex bodies $K$ with angular support in $\Pi$ bijectively to arbitrary (nonnegative) measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ with support in $\Pi$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. ^thm-supported-gauss-measure

Talk about Gauss-Minkowski restricted to normal angles.

> __Lemma [vertices-extreme-points].__ All extreme points of any convex body $K$ are the points $v^-_K(t)$ and $v_K^+(t)$ for arbitrary $t \in S^1$. ^lem-vertices-extreme-points

_Proof._ First, we show that any extreme point is of form $v^-_K(t)$ or $v_K^+(t)$. Any extreme point $p$ should be on the topological boundary of $K$, and by [[15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]] $p$ is in $e_K(t)$ for some $t$. Now $p$ should be one of the endpoints $v^-_K(t)$ or $v_K^+(t)$ of $e_K(t)$, or otherwise $p$ can be represented as strict convex combination of the endpoints and thus not a extreme point. Next, we show that the endpoints $v^-_K(t)$ or $v_K^+(t)$ are extreme points of $K$. □

This is an immediate corollary of [[#^lem-vertices-extreme-points]] and the Krein–Milman theorem.

> __Corollary [convex-hull-vertices].__ For any convex body $K$, the convex hull of the points $v^-_K(t)$ and $v_K^+(t)$ for all $t \in S^1$ is $K$. ^cor-convex-hull-vertices

Now we prove the Gauss-Minkowski Theorem.

_Proof._ (of [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-gauss-minkowski]]) For any convex body $K$ such that $v_K^+(t_0) = p_0$, we have $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta_K (dt) = v_K^+(t + 2\pi) - v_K^+(t) = 0$ by [[yy. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]]. On the other hand, let $\beta$ be an arbitrary measure on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. If $K$ is any convex body such that $\beta_K = \beta$ and $v^+_K(t_0) = p_0$, then by [[20. Normal angles#^cor-convex-hull-vertices]] it should be that $K$ is the convex hull of points $v_K^+(t) = p_0 + \int_{u \in (t_0, t]} v_u \, \beta(du)$ and $v_K^-(t) = \int_{u \in (t_0, t)} v_u \, \beta(du)$ completely determined by $\beta$. Thus, the correspondence $K \mapsto \beta_K$ is well-defined and injective.

In the other direction, let's take arbitrary measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. Our only possible choice of $K$ is the convex hull of points $w^+(t) = p_0 + \int_{u \in (t_0, t]} v_h \, \beta(du)$ and $w^-(t) = p_0 + \int_{u \in (t_0, t)} v_h \, \beta(du)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ like we have just observed. Let $K$ be defined that way. We first show that we indeed have $w^+(t) = v_K^+(t)$ and $w^-(t) = v_K^-(t)$ for all $t$ respectively. For any $t' \in (t, t + \pi]$, we have 
$$
(w^+(t') - w^+(t)) \cdot u_t = \int_{u \in (t, t']} v_u \cdot u_t \, \beta(du) \leq 0
$$
and similarly, for any $t' \in (t - \pi, t]$ we have
$$
(w^+(t) - w^+(t')) \cdot u_t = \int_{u \in (t', t]} v_u \cdot u_t \, \beta(du) \geq 0
$$
so fixing $t$ and changing $t'$, $w^+(t') \cdot u_t$ attains the largest value when $t' = t$. Similarly, we can show that $w^+(t) \cdot u_t$ is an upper bound of any $w^-(t') \cdot u_t$ for $t' \in S^1$. This implies that $w^+(t)$ is in the edge $e_K(t)$ by the convex hull definition of $K$. Moreover, if $w^+(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$ then $w^+(t) \cdot u_t = w^+(t') \cdot u_t$ holds and by the formulas above the measure $\beta$ between $t$ and $t'$ should be zero, so it implies $w^+(t') = w^+(t)$. Similarly, if $w^-(t')$ is on the line $l_K(t)$ then $w^-(t') = w^-(t)$. This implies that $e_K(t)$ is the line segment connecting $w^-(t)$ and $w^+(t) = w^-(t) + \beta(\left\{ t \right\}) v_t$, and so $w^+(t) = v_K^+(t)$ and $w^-(t) = v_K^-(t)$.

Now observe that $v_t \beta(dt) = d w^+(t) = d v_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$, so $\beta = \beta_K$. As we have successfully constructed the inverse of the injective map $K \mapsto \beta_K$, this shows that the correspondence is bijective and finishes the proof. □

# Jordan Curve

Recall the following two standard theorems.

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ (Jordan curve theorem. Theorem 8-40 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]) Any Jordan curve $J$ divides the complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus J$ into two connected components: an unbounded region $\mathcal{U}(J)$, and a bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$. Their boundaries are both $J$. ^thm-jordan-curve

The following theorem is a special case of Green's theorem.

> __Theorem [green].__ (Theorem 10-43 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]] with $P = -y/2$ and $Q=x/2$) If $J$ is a Jordan curve with a positively oriented, rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, then the area of the bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$ can be computed as the following. ^thm-green
$$
\left| \mathcal{B}(J) \right| = I(\mathbf{x})
$$

Any Jordan curve is either positively or negatively oriented. Although we won't provide the precise definition of the orientation of a Jordan curve (e.g. [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]), we use the following lemma to determine the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Lemma [orientation].__ Let $p$ and $q$ be two different points of $\mathbb{R}^2$. Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the closed half-planes separated by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. If a Jordan curve $J$ consists of the join of two arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$, where $\Gamma_0$ connects $p$ to $q$ inside $H_0$, and $\Gamma_1$ connects $q$ to $p$ inside $H_1$, then $J$ is positively oriented. ^lem-orientation

_Proof._ (sketch) We first show that it is safe to assume the case where $J$ only intersects $l$ at two points $p$ and $q$. Observe that $H_i$ has a deformation retract to some subset $S_i \subseteq H_i$ with $S_i \cap l = \left\{ p, q \right\}$ (push the three segments of $l \setminus \{p, q\}$ towards the interior of $H_i$). Using the retracts, we may continuously deform the arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$ inside $S_0$ and $S_1$ respectively without chainging the orientation of $J$. Now take any point $r$ inside the segment connecting $p$ and $q$. Continuously move a point $x$ inside $J$ in the orientation of $J$ starting with $x = p$. As $x$ moves along $\Gamma_0$ from $p$ to $q$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ increases by $\pi$. And as $x$ moves along $\Gamma_1$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ again increases by $\pi$. So the total increase in the argument of $x \in J$ is $2\pi$ and $J$ is positively oriented. □