We prove a generalized version Mamikon's theorem [@mnatsakanianAnnularRingsEqual1997] that works for the boundary segment $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ ([[A1. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary]]) of any convex body $K$ that may not be differentiable.

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ (Mamikon) Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be any angles such that $t_0 < t_1 \leq t_0 + 2 \pi$. Note that $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ is the counterclockwise curve along $\partial K$ from $p := v_K^+(t_0)$ to $q := v_K^+(t_1)$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be any curve that is continous and rectifiable, such that for all $t \in [t_0, t_1]$ the point $\mathbf{y}(t)$ is always on the tangent line $l_K(t)$. Consequently, there is a measurable function $f : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t)v_t$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_1]$. We have the equality ^thm-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) + \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), q \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1} \right)  - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), p \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} f(t) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ For this proof only, let $\mathbf{x} := v_K^+$ be the alias of $v_K^+ : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. First, we prove a differential version of the theorem by calculating the differentials on the interval $(t_0, t_1]$. Note that $\mathbf{y}$ is continuous by definition and $\mathbf{x}$ is right-continuous by [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]], so that $f$ and $\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x}$ are also right-continuous on $(t_0, t_1]$. So the differential $d(\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x})$ makes sense as a Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure on $(t_0, t_1]$ ([[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]). We have the chain of equalities

$$
\begin{align*}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + d \left( \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) + \left( d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) + \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{x} (t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = f(t) u_t \times d\left( f(t) u_t \right) = f(t) u_t \times ( u_t df(t) + f(t) v_t dt) = f(t)^2 dt
\end{align*}
$$

of measures on $(t_0, t_1]$. The first equality uses the product rule of differentials ([[A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]). The second equality is bilinearity of $\times$ (note that $d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) = - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ by antisymmetry of $\times$). As we have $d \mathbf{x}(t) = \sigma(dt)v_t$ by [[A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^pro-boundary-measure-differential]] and $\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) = f(t)v_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t)) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) = 0$ which is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalities are basic calculations.

If we integrate the differential formula above on the whole interval $(t_0, t_1]$, the terms $\mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ and $\mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t)$ becomes $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y})$ and $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ by [[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-curve-area-functional]] and [[A1. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]] respectively. The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d(\mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t))$ integrates to the difference $2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - 2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$. So the integral matches twice the left-hand side of the claimed equality in [[A1. Convex bodies/25. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]], completing the proof. □

We have the following variant on the curve $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0 -, t_1}$ ([[A1. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-closed-param]]) as well.

> __Theorem [mamikon-closed].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be any angles such that $t_0 < t_1 < t_0 + 2 \pi$. Note that $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0 -, t_1}$ is a curve along $\partial K$ from $p := v_K^-(t_0)$ to $q := v_K^+(t_1)$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and $f : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}$ be as in [[A1. Convex bodies/25. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]]. Then we have ^thm-mamikon-closed
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) + \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), q \right) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0 -, t_1}) - \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), p \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} f(t) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ Apply [[A1. Convex bodies/25. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]] to $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$, and use that $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0 -, t_1}$ is the join of $e_{K}(t_0)$ and $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ ([[A1. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-closed-param]]). □

# Mamikon's theorem on tangent lines

Here, we describe a variant of Mamikon's theorem ([[A1. Convex bodies/25. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon-tangent-line]]) where $\mathbf{y}(t)$ parametrizes a segment of a tangent line of $K$. To do so, we need to prepare some notation.

> __Definition [tangent-leg-length].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary such that $t' \neq t, t + \pi$. Define $\tau_K(t, t')$ as the unique value $\alpha$ such that $v_K(t, t') = v_K^+(t) + \alpha v_t$. ^def-tangent-leg-length

Note that $v_K(t, t')$ was defined as the intersection of $l_K(t)$ and $l_K(t')$ ([[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^def-convex-body-tangent-lines-intersection]]). So fixing the line $l_K(t')$ at angle $t'$, the value $\tau_K(t, t')$ measures the distance from $v_K^+(t)$ to $v_K(t, t')$ along the line $l_K(t)$ at angle $t$. Such a value $\alpha$ exists because the points $v_K(t, t')$ and $v_K^+(t)$ are on the line $l_K(t)$.

Linearity of $\tau_K(t, t')$ comes from [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^lem-tangent-lines-intersection-linear]] and [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^cor-vertex-linear]].

> __Corollary [tangent-line-length-linear].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary such that $t' \neq t, t + \pi$. Then $\tau_K(t, t')$ is linear with respect to $K$. ^cor-tangent-line-length-linear

Now this variant of Mamikon's theorem measures the area between a segment $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ of $\partial K$ and the tangent line $l_K(t_1)$.

> __Theorem [mamikon-tangent-line].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be the angles such that $t_0 < t_1 < t_0 + \pi$. Note that $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ is the counterclockwise curve along $\partial K$ from $p := v_K^+(t_0)$ to $q := v_K^+(t_1)$. Let $r = l_K(t_0) \cap l_K(t_1)$. Then we have ^thm-mamikon-tangent-line
$$
\mathcal{I}(r, q) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1} \right) - \mathcal{I}\left(r, p \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} \tau_{K}(t, t_1) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ Define $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K(t, t_1)$ for every $t < t_1$ and $\mathbf{y}(t_1) = v_K^-(t_1)$. Then $\mathbf{y}$ is absolutely continuous by [[A1. Convex bodies/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]] and parametrizes the line segment from $r$ to $v_K^-(t_1)$. By [[A1. Convex bodies/25. Mamikon's theorem#^def-tangent-leg-length]], the function $f(t) = \tau_K(t, t_1)$ satisfies $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t) v_t$. Now apply [[A1. Convex bodies/25. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]] to the curves $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0, t_1}$, $\mathbf{y}$ and function $f$ to get
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_K^-(t_1), q \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1} \right)  - \mathcal{I}\left( r, p \right) = \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} \tau_{K}(t, t_1) ^2 \, dt.
$$
Now use $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) = \mathcal{I}(r, v_K^-(t_1))$ (see the remark before [[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-curve-area-functional-segment]]) to conclude the proof. □