Fix a rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. In the previous [[b. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/03. Monotone Sofa]], we identified a maximum-area moving sofa $S$ as the intersection $\mathcal{I} := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_t$ of strips and rotating hallways. Gerver derived his sofa $S_G$ using a discrete approximation of $\mathcal{I}$ [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]. Take a finite nonempty subset $\Theta$ of $(0, \omega)$ and the polygon intersection ^eqn-polygon
$$
S_\Theta := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} L_t
$$
as the approximation of $S = \mathcal{I}$. The approximated problem now is to maximize the area of $S_\Theta$ by freely translating the finite number of hallways $L_t$, each rotated counterclockwise by $t \in \Theta$.

Say that $S_\Theta$ is _balanced_ if for any unit vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$, the sum of the lengths of edges of $S_\Theta$ with normal vector $v$ is equal to that of the opposite normal vector $-v$ [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992].[^balanced] A (not necessarily connected) maximum-area $S_\Theta$ should be balanced. Otherwise, we could push one of the $H$, $V_\omega$ or $L_t$ by a small distance in a direction orthogonal to the unbalanced side lengths and increase the area slightly, and if we pushed either $H$ or $V_\omega$, translate the whole $S_\Theta$ to move $H$ or $V_\omega$ back to its position.

Using this idea of balancing $S_\Theta$, Theorem 1 of Gerver's paper [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] states that there is a maximum-area moving sofa $S_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [\pi/3, \pi/2]$, such that $S_\omega$ is the limit of balanced polygons $S_\Theta$ of maximum area as $\Theta$ becomes denser in $[0, \omega]$.[^gerver-derivation] In particular, the bottom and top horizontal side lengths of $S_\omega$ should be equal, and we use this as an important step for the proof of main [[b. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]] (see the parallel blue sides in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/07. Proof of the Main Theorem#^fig-proof-outline]]).

However, Gerver's proof of Theorem 1 in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] is incomplete for the following reasons.

- He defines a sofa as connected, and use that at some point. He defines a class $\mathcal{T}$. But his definition of $\mathcal{T}$ does not require each $T \in \mathcal{T}$ to be connected, and the set $\mathcal{T}$ does contain disconnected sets. So it is not guaranteed that 
- One may argue that his proof can be saved by restricting $\mathcal{T}$ to the sets of connected. He takes balanced polygons $S_\Theta$ as $\Theta$ becomes denser in $[0, \omega]$. The issue is that, a balanced $S_\Theta$ of maximum area may not necessarily be connected. 

A near-miss example is the case $\omega = \pi/2$ and $\Theta = \left\{ \pi/4 \right\}$. In this case, the maximum-area connected intersection $S_\Theta$ is $H \cap L_{\pi/4}$ where $L_{\pi/4} = R_{\pi/4}(L) + (0, 1)$ have inner corner $(0, 1)$. As we move $L_{\pi/4}$ slightly in the direction of $(\pm 1, 1)$, the new intersection $S_\Theta$ immediately becomes disconnected. We are lucky in this case as the maximum-area $S_{\Theta}$ _happens_ to be balanced. But this is a coincidence and not the consequence of the balancing argument that fails to reconcile the connectedness and balancedness of $S_\Theta$ at the same time.

We fill this gap in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/00. Preface]] and rigorously establish the existence of a balanced maximum-area monotone sofa $S_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega$. Instead of requring the polygonal approximation $S_{\Theta}$ to be connected, we will write $S_\Theta = K \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ as the difference of a polygon cap $K$ and polygon niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$, analogous to the (continuous) cap $K$ and niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of a monotone sofa $S$ in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/03. Monotone Sofa]]. Then we will maximize the value $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) := |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ with respect to the polygon cap $K$, regardless of whether $S_{\Theta} = K \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ is connected or whether $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \subset K$. We show that the maximizer $K_\Theta$ is balanced in the sense that the sum of side lengths of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}_{\Theta}(K)$ balance with each other.

> __Theorem [maximum-polygon-cap-abridged].__ (abridged) A polygon cap $K_\Theta := K$ maximizing $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) := |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ exists ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap]]) and is always balanced ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa]]), in the sense that the side lengths of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ balance each other ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-polygon-cap-balanced]]). ^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged

Then we show that for such $K_\Theta$ in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged]] we have $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K_\Theta) \subset K_\Theta$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa-connected]]). Using this, we will show that as $\Theta$ gets denser in $[0,\omega]$, the maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta$ in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged]] indeed converge to a monotone sofa attaining the maximum area with the fixed rotation angle $\omega$.

> __Theorem [maximum-area-polygon-limit].__ (abridged) For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, there exists a monotone sofa $S_\omega$ satisfying the followings. ^thm-maximum-area-polygon-limit
> 
> 1. $S_\omega$ attains the maximum area among all moving sofas of rotation angle $\omega$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum-area Sofa#^thm-limiting-maximum-sofa]]).
> 2. As $n \to \infty$, there is a sequence of finite sets $\Theta_n \subset (0, \omega)$ getting denser in $[0, \omega]$, so that the balanced polygon caps $K_{\Theta_n}$ in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged]] converge to the cap $K_\omega$ of $S_\omega$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum-area Sofa#^thm-limiting-maximum-cap]]).

[^balanced]: Gerver's definition of balancedness in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] also require the parallel sides of opposite directions to have distance 1. But this does not make any difference for $S_\Theta$ as the parallel sides of opposite directions in $S_\Theta$ always have distance 1.

[^gerver-derivation]: Analogously, Theorem 2 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] derives Gerver's sofa $S_G$, the conjectually optimum sofa, as the limit of certain balanced polygons $S_\Theta$, which is streamlined by Romik as solving a set of ordinary differential equations [@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018].