We prove the following [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]].

> __Theorem [balanced-consumed].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$ be arbitary. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ be the maximizing cap of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K)$ as in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/05. Balancedness#^thm-main-balanced]]. Assume also that $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) > 2.2$. Let $t = \pi/2 - \omega$. Then the points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega$ are contained in the closure of the quadrant $Q_K^-(t)$. ^thm-balanced-consumed

We factor out some technical steps of the proof of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]] for easier verification. Readers who are more interested in the motivations of these steps can jump to the proof of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]] right away.

> __Definition [omega-gap].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, define $c_\omega = \tan((\pi/2 - \omega) / 2)$ so that $o_\omega = (c_\omega, 1)$. ^def-omega-gap

> __Proposition [omega-gap].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, $o_\omega - v_0 = c_\omega u_0$ and $o_\omega - u_\omega = c_\omega v_\omega$. ^pro-omega-gap

_Proof._ For this proof only, let $A := o_\omega - v_0$ and $B := o_\omega - v_\omega$. The points $O, A, o_\omega$ (resp. $O, B, o_\omega$) forms a congruent right-angled triangl with the right corner at $A$ (resp. $B$) with height 1 along the edge connecting $o_\omega$ and $A$ (resp. $B$). The angle $\angle AOB$ is $\omega + \pi/2$, so we have $\angle A O o_\omega = \angle o_\omega O B = (\omega + \pi/2)/2$. So the length of the edge connecting $O$ and $A$ (or $O$ and $B$) is equal to $c_\omega$ and we get the equations claimed in the proposition. □

> __Lemma [cap-support-elementary-bound].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, the set ^lem-cap-support-elementary-bound
$$
K' := P_\omega \cap H_-(0, 1.1 + c_\omega) \cap H_-(\omega + \pi/2, 1.1 + c_\omega)
$$
> has an area at most $2.2$.

_Proof._ Observe first that $K'$ has mirror symmetry along the line connecting $O$ and $o_\omega$. Define the points $A := o_\omega - v_0$, $B := o_\omega$, $C := A + 1.1 u_0$, $D = B + 1.1 u_0$. Then $A, B, O$ forms a triangle $T$ and $A, B, C, D$ forms a rectangle $R$. The union of $T$ and $P_\omega \cap R$ forms exactly the half of $K'$ in area due to the mirror symmetry of $K'$. Now it suffices to show that $|T| + |P_\omega \cap R| \leq 1.1$.

□

> __Definition [calculation-variables].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2]$ and $d \geq 1.1$ be arbitary. Define the values $r_y, g \in \mathbb{R}$ and $q_0, q_1 \in \mathbb{R}^2$ depending solely on $\omega$ and $d$ as follows. ^def-calculation-variables
$$
\begin{gather*}
r_y := (1 - (d + c_\omega) \cos \omega)/\sin \omega \\
g = \sqrt{1 - r_y^2} \\
q_1 := o_\omega - g u_0 \\
q_0 := (c_\omega + d) u_0
\end{gather*}
$$

The variables in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]] are motivated by the proof of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]]. 

> __Lemma [calculation-inequalities].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2]$ and $d \geq 1.1$ be arbitary. Then the following inequalities are true. ^lem-calculation-inequalities
> 
> 1. $(q_1 - (o_\omega - u_\omega)) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$
> 2. $(q_0 - (o_\omega - v_0)) \cdot u_{\pi / 2 - \omega} \geq 1$

_Proof._ 
Need to check the following calculations.

$q_1 \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1 + (o_\omega - u_\omega) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega}$


$(-(g, 0) + u_{\omega}) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$

$g \sin t + \cos (2 t) \geq 1$


$(q_0 - (o_\omega - v_0)) \cdot u_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$

Angle $t = \pi/2 - \omega$

$d u_0 \cdot u_t \geq 1$

$d \cos t \geq 1$

$t = \arccos(1/d)$ 

The second one is easy actually. Needs check of  □

_Proof._ (of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]]) We first show that at least one of $p_K(0) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$ or $p_K(\omega + \pi/2) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$ should be true. Assume the contrary. Then the cap $K$ is contained in $P_\omega$ and the half-planes $H_-(0, 1.1 + c_\omega)$ and $H_-(\omega + \pi/2, 1.1 + c_\omega)$. So $K$ is contained in the intersection $K' = P_\omega \cap H_-(0, 1.1 + c_\omega) \cap H_-(\omega + \pi/2, 1.1 + c_\omega)$. but the area of $K'$ is already at most $2.2$. Now we have $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) \leq |K| \leq |K'| \leq 2.2$, contradicting the assumption $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) > 2.2$.

So we have either $p_K(0) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$ or $p_K(\omega + \pi/2) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$. Appeal to the mirror reflection of $K$ and assume without loss of generality that $p_K(0) \geq 1.1 + c_\omega$. Define $d := p_K(0) - c_\omega$, so that $d \geq 1.1$ in particular. We now have $A_K^-(0) = q_0$, where $q_0 := (c_\omega + d) u_0$ is defined in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]]. In particular, the point $q_0$ is in $K$.

Define the point $r := l_K(0) \cap l_K(\omega)$. Observe that by definition, $r \cdot u_0 = p_K(0) = d + c_{\omega}$ and $r \cdot u_\omega = 1$. Solving for the coordinates of $r$, we get $r = (d + c_\omega, r_y)$ where $r_y$ is defined as in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]]. 
Now the bottom right gap $w_K(t)$ is bounded from below by the circle of radius 1 centered at $r$. Now the right-angled triangle formed by side of length 1 connecting $W_K(t)$ and $r$ have height at most $r_y$, so the wedge gap $w_K^{\circ}$ is at least $g := \sqrt{1 - r_y^2}$. By the balancedness condition $\sigma_K(\pi/2) \geq \omega^{\circ}_K \geq g$ of $K$, it should be that the point $q_1 := o_\omega - g u_0$ as in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]] should be in $K$.

We found the two points $q_0, q_1$ in $K$, so the set $X = \left\{ q_1, q_2 \right\}$ is a subset of $K$. Take the inner quadrant $Q_X^-(t)$.
It turns out that $Q_X^-(t) = H_-^{\circ}(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1) \cap H_-^{\circ}(t + \pi/2, q_1 \cdot v_t - 1)$.

We now show that the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0 = c_\omega u_0, o_\omega - u_\omega = c_\omega v_\omega$ are contained in the closure of $Q_X^-(t)$. Because $c_\omega > 0$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$, the points $c_\omega v_\omega, O, c_\omega u_0$ are successively further in the direction of $u_t$. So to show that the three points $O, c_\omega u_0, c_\omega v_\omega$ are in $H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$, it suffies to show $o_\omega - v_0 \in H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$. This is true by (1) of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of Angle Hypothesis/00. Preface#^lem-calculation-inequalities]]. Likewise, the points $c_\omega u_0, O, c_\omega v_\omega$ are successively further in the direction of $v_t$. So to show that the three points $O, c_\omega u_0, c_\omega v_\omega$ are in $H_-^{\circ}(t + \pi/2, q_1 \cdot v_t - 1)$, it suffies to show $c_\omega \in H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$. □

Take the point $r$ such that $r \cdot u_\omega = 1$ and $r \cdot u_0 = d + \tan(\omega/2)$. This is the 'farthest' point to the right from the origin.

Compute the coordinates of $r$. $r_x \cos \omega + r_y \sin \omega = 1$ and $r_x = d$. So
$$
r_y = \frac{1 - (d + \tan(\omega/2)) \cos \omega}{\sin \omega}.
$$
 Now the point $q := o_\omega - (g, 0)$ is inside the cap $K$ by the balancedness condition.

Take the angle $t = \pi/2 - \omega$ and observe that $t \in [0, \omega]$. It should be that $Q_K^+(t)$ contains the points $q_0$ and $q_1$. Take the set $X = \left\{ q_0, q_1 \right\}$. Take the hallway $L' = L_X(t)$ which is $L$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$, and that the outer walls pass through $q_0$ in the vertical line and $q_1$ in the horizontal line. We need to verify $q_0 \cdot u_t > q_1 \cdot u_t$ and $q_1 \cdot v_t > q_0 \cdot v_t$. Then, the inner quadrant $Q_X^-(t)$ should be contained in the quadrant $Q_K^-(t)$.

Next, we show that the points $O = (0, 0)$ and $o_\omega - v_0$, $o_\omega - u_\omega$ are contained in the inner quadrant $Q_X^-(t)$. This is done by calculation.

Free variables $\omega$ and $d$.


