We now state the _injectivity hypothesis_ which is a much weaker version of Gerver's conjecture. Observe first that the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ satisfies the following properties.

> __Definition [well-behaved].__ For a cap $K$, say that it is _well-behaved_ if it satisfies the following conditions. ^def-well-behaved
> 
> 1. $S$ has rotation angle $90^{\circ}$.
> 2. The inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the rotating hallway $L_S(t)$ is injective with respect to $t \in [0, \pi/2]$.
> 3. For any $t \in (0, \omega)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $F_{\pi/2}$.
> 4. The starting point $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ of the arc is strictly on the right side of the ending point $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2)$ of the arc. That is, $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2) \cdot u_0 < \mathbf{x}_K(0) \cdot u_0$.

So the cap of Gerver's sofa is well-behaved, but also note that the condition is much more general. The injectivity hypothesis states that there exists a sofa of maximum area with a well-behaved cap.

> __Conjecture [injectivity].__ There is a monotone sofa $S = S_{\text{max}}$ attaining the maximum area among all sofas, with cap well-behaved. ^con-injectivity

Our main theorem is that we can recover the full Gerver's conjecture from injectivity hypothesis.

> __Theorem [main-reduction].__ For any well-behaved cap $K$, we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}(K_G)$. ^thm-main-reduction

> __Corollary [main-reduction].__ [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity]] implies Gerver's conjecture. ^cor-main-reduction

We make a brief remark on why a computer-assisted approach may prove [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity]]. Give the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ the Hausdorff measure. Then 

> __Theorem [gerver-injectivity].__ There exists a $\epsilon>0$ such that, for every $K$ close to the cap $K_G$ under Hausdorff norm < $\epsilon$, $\mathcal{A}(K)$ either does not attain the maximum area or  ^thm-gerver-injectivity

Because this theorem is irrelevant to the main result, we only give a brief sketch of the proof. But this also serves as a good blueprint to the actual proof of [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity-cap]].

_Proof._ 

- As $K \to K_G$, most of $g^+_K(t)$ and $h^+_K(t)$ converge to that of $K_G$, because the curvature at boundary of $K_G$ is bounded.
- Take $\delta$ sufficientlly small so that 0.01 neighborhood of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and $w_K(t)$ are strictly contained inside the niche $\mathcal{N}(K_G)$ of Gerver's sofa.
- The trouble occurs when $t$ is close to $0$ or $\pi/2$. For that you need to attach a bar above $K$. Even with bar attached, 

□

So if Gerver's sofa attains the unique maximum area, then by Kallus-Romik we can eliminate all sofas. So in theory we can prove injectivity hypothesis by running their software for long enough.

Finally, we also state a variant on the optimization of area functional of an arbitrary cap. 

> __Conjecture [injectivity-cap].__ There is a cap $K_{\text{max}}$ attaining the maximum sofa area functional among all caps, such that $K_{\text{max}}$ is well-behaved. ^con-injectivity-cap

Note that [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity-cap]] is not implied by Gerver's conjecture, so technically it is not a weakening of Gerver's conjecture. Note also that neither [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity]] or [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity-cap]] directly imply each other. However, . Our upcoming work in progress, if successful, will prove exactly the variant [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity-cap]]. In this work, we prove 

> __Theorem [main-reduction-variant].__ [[00. Injectivity Hypothesis#^con-injectivity]] implies the full Gerver's conjecture. ^thm-main-reduction-variant

