We now state the _injectivity hypothesis_ in full details which is a much weaker version of Gerver's conjecture. Observe that the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ satisfies the following properties.

> __Definition [well-behaved].__ Say that a cap $K$ is _well-behaved_ if it satisfies the following conditions. ^def-well-behaved
> 
> 1. $S$ has rotation angle $90^{\circ}$.
> 2. The inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the rotating hallway $L_S(t)$ is injective with respect to $t \in [0, \pi/2]$.
> 3. For any $t \in (0, \omega)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is inside $F_{\pi/2}$.
> 4. The starting point $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ of the arc is strictly on the right side of the ending point $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2)$ of the arc. That is, $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2) \cdot u_0 < \mathbf{x}_K(0) \cdot u_0$.

So the cap of Gerver's sofa is well-behaved. But also note that the condition is much more general and there will be much more monotone sofas with well-behaving caps. The injectivity hypothesis states that there exists a sofa of maximum area with a well-behaved cap.

> __Conjecture [injectivity].__ There is a monotone sofa $S = S_{\text{max}}$ with a well-behaved cap attaining the maximum area among all monotone sofas. ^con-injectivity

Gerver's conjecture immediately implies [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]]. The main theorem of our paper is that we can also recover the full Gerver's conjecture from [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]].

> __Theorem [main-reduction].__ For any well-behaved cap $K$, we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}(K_G)$. ^thm-main-reduction

> __Corollary [main-reduction].__ [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] implies Gerver's conjecture. ^cor-main-reduction

We also mention a variant of [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] involving general caps.

> __Conjecture [injectivity-cap].__ There is a well-behaved cap $K = K_{\text{max}}$ attaining the maximum value of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ among all caps with rotation angles in $[0, \pi/2]$. ^con-injectivity-cap

Note that technically neither [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] nor [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity-cap]] implies each other, because [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] is about maximizer of $\mathcal{A}$ in the caps of monotone sofas while [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity-cap]] is about maximizer of $\mathcal{A}$ in all caps. Similarly, [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity-cap]] is not a direct consequence of Gerver's conjecture. But [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity-cap]] also implies Gerver's conjecture by [[01. Statement#^thm-main-reduction]].

> __Corollary [main-reduction].__ [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] implies [[15. Sofa Area Functional#^con-gerver-cap]] and thus Gerver's conjecture. ^cor-main-reduction

Moreover, the variant [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity-cap]] has an advantage that we don't need to prove that the well-behaved cap $K_{\text{max}}$ should be the cap of a monotone sofa. Thus, our upcoming work in focuses on proving [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity-cap]] instead of [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]], although 