Give the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ the metric $d(K_1, K_2) = \sup_{t \in [0, \pi]} \left| p_{K_2}(t) - p_{K_1}(t) \right|$. We omit the proof but mention that the metric is strongly equivalent to the Hausdorff distance of two caps. It can be also shown that the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ is continuous with respect to this metric (TODO: add citation). We now show that for any cap $K$ near the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa under this metric, the injectivity hypothesis holds.

> __Theorem [gerver-injectivity].__ There exists a $\epsilon>0$ such that the following holds. For any $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ that maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$, if $d(K, K_G) < \epsilon$ then $K$ is well-behaved. ^thm-gerver-injectivity

_Proof._ (Sketch; need to expand)

- Take $\delta > 0$ sufficiently small so that, for every $t \in [0, \delta]$, the ball of radius 0.001 centered at $\mathbf{x}_{K_G}(t)$ is contained in the niche $\mathcal{N}(K_G)$ of Gerver's sofa. This is possible as the ball of radius 0.01 centered at $\mathbf{x}_{K_G}(0)$ is contained inside $\mathcal{N}(K_G)$.
- As $K \to K_G$ in the metric $d$ as $\epsilon \to 0$, the value $g^+_K(t)$ for all $t \in [\delta, \pi/2]$ and $h^+_K(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2 - \delta]$ converge uniformly to that of $K_G$, because the curvature of $\delta K_G$ at $A_{K_G}(t)$ (resp. $C_{K_G}(t)$) for all $t \in [\delta, \pi/2]$ (resp. $t \in [0, \pi/2 - \delta]$) is bounded.
- We now bound $g_K^+(t)$ for $t \in [0, \delta]$. There exists a $K$ sufficiently close to $K_G$ such that $g_K^+(0)$ is far away from $g_{K_G}^+(0)$ (picture needed). But we will show that such a 
- Take an arbitrary $K$ (how?). Make a new cap $\hat{K}$ as the cap of the union of $K$ and a segment on the line $y=1$. Then $\mathcal{A}(\hat{K}) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ always (how?). Moreover, we can now bound $g_{\hat{K}}^+(t)$ for $t \in [0, \delta]$ from below.
- 

□

So [[01. Statement#^thm-main-reduction]] and [[02. Proof near Gerver's Sofa#^thm-gerver-injectivity]] shows that the only possible candidate of $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ near $K_G$ that maximizes $\mathcal{A}(G)$ is the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa. This is a rigorous justification that Gerver's sofa satisfies the local optimality condition.

We now mention a theoretical possibility of proving Gerver's conjecture. Assume _a priori_ that Gerver's sofa happens to be the unique sofa of maximum area (suggested by numerical experimentations in [[@gibbsComputationalStudySofas]]), albeit we don't have a proof for it. Our goal now is to find a rigorous proof without relying on the a priori assumption. 

We first mention the work of Kallus and Romik [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]]. They devised an algorithm that can approximate $\mathcal{A}$ uniformly with upper bound when ran for sufficiently long time[^note that we change the description by omitting their work on arbitrary rotation angle; we fix the rotation angle as $pi/2$ because we plan to deal with rotation angle later in a different way]. Let $\Gamma$ be any partition of $[0, \pi/2]$. (description of details). So if our assumption that $K_G$ is the unique maximizer of $A$ is correct, then their software will be able to rigorously prove the following without relying on our assumption: the maximizer of $\mathcal{A}$ should be contained in $U$, where $U$ is a small neighborhood $U$ that shrinks over time as we run the software. 

Their software still cannot determine in finite time if $U$ will indeed shrink to the point $K_G$ or not. However, with [[02. Proof near Gerver's Sofa#^thm-gerver-injectivity]], we can run the software until $U$ shrinks enough to 

Realistically, this approach is 