Here, we show that for any cap $K$ with rotation angle $\pi/2$ that is sufficiently close to the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa, if $K$ maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ then $K$ has to be well-behaved. Using this, we will also show that if Gerver's conjecture is true _a priori_, then by running the branch-and-bound algorithm described in [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]] for sufficiently long, the algorithm can produce a proof of injectivity theorem without relying on the a priori assumption.

Give the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ the metric $d(K_1, K_2) = \sup_{t \in [0, \pi]} \left| p_{K_2}(t) - p_{K_1}(t) \right|$. We omit the proof but mention that the metric is strongly equivalent to the Hausdorff distance of two caps. It can be also shown that the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ is continuous with respect to this metric (TODO: add citation). We will prove the following.

> __Theorem [gerver-injectivity].__ There exists an open neighborhood $U$ of the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa such that the following holds. For every cap $K \in U$ that maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$, the cap is well-behaved. ^thm-gerver-injectivity

Note that if the open set $U$ in the statement is the whole space $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$, then the statement of [[03. Proof near Gerver's Sofa (WIP)#^thm-gerver-injectivity]] is a slightly stronger version of Gerver's conjecture. So in a sense, [[03. Proof near Gerver's Sofa (WIP)#^thm-gerver-injectivity]] proves the injectivity hypothesis near the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa.

_Proof._ (Sketch; need to expand)

- Take $\delta > 0$ sufficiently small so that, for every $t \in [0, \delta]$, the ball of radius 0.001 centered at $\mathbf{x}_{K_G}(t)$ is contained in the niche $\mathcal{N}(K_G)$ of Gerver's sofa. This is possible as the ball of radius 0.01 centered at $\mathbf{x}_{K_G}(0)$ is contained inside $\mathcal{N}(K_G)$.
- As $K \to K_G$ in the metric $d$ as $\epsilon \to 0$, the value $g^+_K(t)$ for all $t \in [\delta, \pi/2]$ and $h^+_K(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2 - \delta]$ converge uniformly to that of $K_G$, because the curvature of $\delta K_G$ at $A_{K_G}(t)$ (resp. $C_{K_G}(t)$) for all $t \in [\delta, \pi/2]$ (resp. $t \in [0, \pi/2 - \delta]$) is bounded.
- We now bound $g_K^+(t)$ for $t \in [0, \delta]$. There exists a $K$ sufficiently close to $K_G$ such that $g_K^+(0)$ is far away from $g_{K_G}^+(0)$ (picture needed). But we will show that such a 
- Take an arbitrary $K$ (how?). Make a new cap $\hat{K}$ as the cap of the union of $K$ and a segment on the line $y=1$. Then $\mathcal{A}(\hat{K}) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ always (how?). Moreover, we can now bound $g_{\hat{K}}^+(t)$ for $t \in [0, \delta]$ from below.
- Use [[15. Directional Derivative#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] to bound the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K$.
	- Show that $\mathbf{x}_K'(t) \cdot v_{\pi/4} > 0$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/4]$.
	- Now we only need to show that $t \in [0, \pi/4]$ and $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$ do not overlap.
	- $\mathbf{x}'_K(t) \cdot u_0 < 0$ for every $t \in [\pi/4, 3\pi/4]$.
- So the injectivity hypothesis holds.

□

So [[01. Statement#^thm-main-reduction]] and [[03. Proof near Gerver's Sofa (WIP)#^thm-gerver-injectivity]] shows that the only possible candidate of $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ near $K_G$ that maximizes $\mathcal{A}(G)$ is the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa. This is a rigorous justification that Gerver's sofa satisfies the local optimality condition.

We now mention the theoretical possibility of proving injectivity hypothesis using computer assistance. Assume _a priori_ that Gerver's sofa happens to be the unique sofa of maximum area, which is suggested by numerical experimentations in [[@gibbsComputationalStudySofas]]. Our goal now is to find a rigorous proof without relying on the assumption. Here, it is important that we won't use the a priori assumption as a part of our proof.

Kallus and Romik [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]] devised an algorithm that can approximate $\mathcal{A}$ uniformly from above when ran for sufficiently long time[^note that we change the description by omitting their work on arbitrary rotation angle; we fix the rotation angle as $pi/2$ because we plan to deal with rotation angle later in a different way]. More precisely, their algorithm produces a finite partition $\mathcal{P}$ of $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ into boxes and an upper bound $\mathcal{A}_{fin}$ which is constant at each box $B \in \mathcal{P}$. Each loop of the algorithm breaks a single box into two smaller boxes and provide an improved upper bound $\mathcal{A}_{fin}$ of $\mathcal{A}$ for each new box. So by running the algorithm indefinitely, the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_{fin}$ converges to $\mathcal{A}$ uniformly.

So if $K_G$ is the unique maximizer of $\mathcal{A}$, then their software will be able to rigorously prove the following without relying on our assumption: the maximizer of $\mathcal{A}$ should be contained in $U$, where $U$ is a small neighborhood of $K_G$ that shrinks over time as we run the software. We can run the software until $U$ shrinks enough to be contained inside the neighborhood of $K_G$ in [[03. Proof near Gerver's Sofa (WIP)#^thm-gerver-injectivity]]. While [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]] by alone cannot identify a single maximizer of $U$ in finite time, it can shrink $U$ sufficiently small. Then, with [[03. Proof near Gerver's Sofa (WIP)#^thm-gerver-injectivity]] we would be able to rigorously prove that any maximizer of $\mathcal{A}$ should be in $U$, so it should be well-behaved, proving the injectivity hypothesis.

Realistically, the size of the neighborhood $U$ required to make this line of proof work is too small for their implementation `SofaBounds` to compute. To this, we developed a new algorithm involving exact analysis of finite intersection of hallways, and implemented as a program called `SofaDesigner`. Using the software, we are in the process of proving [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] completely, which will be reported subsequently if successful.