The main theorem of our paper is that we can recover the full Gerver's conjecture from [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]].

> __Theorem [main-reduction].__ For any well-behaved cap $K$, we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}(K_G)$. That is, the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa attains the maximum value of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ among all well-behaved caps $K$. ^thm-main-reduction

> __Corollary [main-reduction].__ [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] implies Gerver's conjecture. ^cor-main-reduction

The rest of the paper will focus on proving [[w02. Implication to Gerver's Conjecture (WIP)#^thm-main-reduction]]. We also mention a variant of [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] involving general caps.

> __Conjecture [injectivity-cap].__ There is a well-behaved cap $K = K_{\text{max}}$ attaining the maximum value of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ among all caps with rotation angles in $[0, \pi/2]$. ^con-injectivity-cap

Note that technically neither [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] nor [[#^con-injectivity-cap]] implies each other, because they have different domains where $\mathcal{A}$ is maximized. Likewise, [[#^con-injectivity-cap]] is not a direct consequence of Gerver's conjecture. But [[#^con-injectivity-cap]] also implies Gerver's conjecture by [[01. Statement#^thm-main-reduction]] as well.

> __Corollary [main-reduction].__ [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]] implies [[15. Cap contains niche#^con-gerver-cap]] and thus Gerver's conjecture. ^cor-main-reduction

The variant [[#^con-injectivity-cap]] has an advantage that we don't need to prove that the well-behaved cap $K$ should be the cap of a monotone sofa. That is, we don't need to worry if $K$ should contain the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ or not. Thus, our upcoming work in progress, that will be a follow-up of this paper if suceeded, aims to prove the variant [[#^con-injectivity-cap]] instead of [[01. Statement#^con-injectivity]]. 