(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: This is the introduction that we can write after all WIP chapters are complete. I'm sharing this to explain how the works written so far fits in the bigger picture of future research. It would be great if we can find a way to write the introduction that _alludes_ to this if possible)

In this paper, we reduce Gerver's full conjecture to a much weaker statement we call as the _injectivity hypothesis_. The hypothesis states that there exists a moving sofa $S$ of maximum area such that the followings hold.
- $S$ rotates $90$ degrees clockwise as it moves from $L_H$ to $L_V$
- The trajectory $\mathbf{x}(t)$ of the inner corner does not self-intersect nor goes below the bottom side of the sofa.
Note that Gerver's sofa satisfies the two conditions above, so the injectivity hypothesis is immediately implied by Gerver's conjecture. Our main theorem shows that injectivity hypothesis also _implies_ the full Gerver's conjecture. We also show that if Gerver's conjecture is true _a priori_, which is suggested by the experiments in [[@gibbsComputationalStudySofas]], then a modification of an algorithm by Romik and Kallus [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]] is able to terminate in finite time and prove the Gerver's conjecture independent of the a priori assumption.

In Section 1, we define _monotone sofas_ as a special subset of monotone sofas, and show that there is a sofa with maximum area which is monotone. A monotone sofa always consists of a convex set called the _cap_ subtracted by its _niche_ (see [[01. Moving Sofa Problem#^fig-monotone-sofa]]). With this, we turn the moving sofa problem to maximizing the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ defined on the space of caps. In Section 2, we state the full statement of the injectivity hypothesis. In Section 3, we construct a concave upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ of $\mathcal{A}$ and show that the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$ is $1 + \pi^2/8 = 2.2337\dots$. In Section 4, we utilize the first upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ to construct a finer second concave upper bound $\mathcal{A}_2$. We show that Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum value $|S_G|$ of $\mathcal{A}_2$, completing the proof of Gerver's conjecture.