[[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]] contains basic definitions that will be used thoroughout this paper. Since [[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]] is comprehensive, the reader is not expected to read everything in [[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]] at one setting. Instead, the reader can start off by reading the definitions on moving sofas and convex bodies, and later refer to the parts of this section as needed.

[[15. Monotone sofas/00. Preface]] proves [[15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]] that any moving sofa can be enlarged to a monotone sofa, and proves structural [[15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]] and [[15. Monotone sofas/15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]] on monotone sofas. Using this, [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface]] reduces the moving sofa problem to the maximization of the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. [[25. Upper bound A1/00. Preface]] proves the main [[01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-main]] by establishing the upper bound $1 + \omega^2/2$ of the sofa area $\mathcal{A}$ using the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$. Each chapter starts with an overview of the chapter.

[[A1. Convex bodies/00. Preface]] proves numerous properties of an arbitrary planar convex body $K$ that we will use thoroughly in this paper. So the logical ordering of this paper is [[10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface]], followed by [[A1. Convex bodies/00. Preface]], then the sections starting [[15. Monotone sofas/00. Preface]]. A logically inclined reader may read in this ordering to verify the correctness of all arguments. On the other hand, readers who are interested in the overall idea may either start by reading the sections in order and refer to the appendix when needed, or skim the introduction of each section of [[A1. Convex bodies/00. Preface]] and then read the rest of the paper.