Define the following convex curve segment of the boundary of a convex body $K$.

> __Definition [convex-curve].__ For any planar convex body $K$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $a < b < a + \pi$, define the segment ^def-convex-curve
$$
\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} := \left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (a, b)} e_K(t) \cup \left\{ v_K^-(b) \right\}.
$$
> of the boundary of $K$.

The goal of this [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve]] is to show that $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is a rectifiable curve and evaluate its curve area functional.

> __Lemma [convex-curve-cut].__ Assume arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. If $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$, then $v_K(a, b) = v_K^{\pm}(a)$ and $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is the single point $\left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$. If $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$, then the followings are true. ^lem-convex-curve-cut
> 
> 1. The point $v_K(a, b)$ is not on the line $l'$ connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$.
> 2. The closed half-plane $H'$ with the boundary $l'$ containing $v_K(a, b)$ have normal angle $t' + \pi$ for some $t' \in (a, b)$.
> 3. The intersection $K' := K \cap H'$ is a planar convex body satisfying the followings.
> 	i. For any $t \in (t' - \pi, a]$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = \left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$.
> 	ii. For any $t \in (a, b)$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = e_K(t)$.
> 	iii. For any $t \in [b, t' + \pi)$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = \left\{ v_K^-(b) \right\}$.
> 	iv. The edge $e_{K'}(t' + \pi)$ is the line segment from $v_K^-(b)$ to $v_K^+(a)$.

_Proof._ Define the closed cone $X := H_K(a) \cap H_K(b)$ with vertex $v_K(a, b)$ containing $K$. The boundary of $X$ is the union of two half-lines $X \cap l_K(a)$ and $X \cap l_K(b)$ meeting at $v_K(a, b)$ in an angle of $b-a \in (0, \pi)$. The faces $X \cap l_K(a)$ and $X \cap l_K(b)$ of $X$ are the half-lines starting from the vertex $v_K(a, b)$, containing $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$ respectively. So we have $v_K(a, b) = v_K^+(a) + \alpha v_a$ for some $\alpha \geq 0$ and $v_K^-(b) = v_K(a, b) + \beta v_b$ for some $\beta \geq 0$.

First assume $v_K(a, b) \in K$. Then since $v_K(a, b) \in K \subseteq X$, we have $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b) = v_K(a, b)$ and $e_K(t) = \left\{ v_K(a, b) \right\}$ for all $t \in (a, b)$. So $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$ and $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to the single point $v_K^+(a)$ as claimed.

Now assume $v_K(a, b) \not\in K$. Then since $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b) \in K$ but $v_K(a, b) \not\in K$, we have $\alpha, \beta > 0$ and the points $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b), v_K(a, b)$ are not on the same line, showing (1). Also, the vector $v_K^+(a) - v_K^-(b) = \alpha v_a + \beta v_b$ is equal to $\tau v_{t'}$ for some $\tau > 0$ and $t' \in (a, b)$. So (2) holds. Define $T := X \cap H'$, which is the triangle with vertices $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b), v_K(a, b)$.

Since $e_T(t')$ is the segment connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$, we have $e_T(t') \subseteq K' \subseteq T$. This, with that $T$ have normal angles $a, b, t' + \pi$, implies (i), (iii), (iv) of (3) except $t = a, b$. For the case $t=a$ in (i), use the definition of $v_K^+(a)$ to see that the edge $e_K(a)$ only intersects $K$ at the single point $v_K^+(a)$. Handle the case $t=b$ in (iii).

It remains to show (ii). It suffices to show that for all $t \in (a, b)$, we have $e_K(t) \subseteq T$ as this implies $e_K(t) \subseteq K' = K \cap T$. To prove $e_K(t) \subseteq T$, we will show that for any $p \in K \setminus T$ we have $p \not\in e_K(t)$. If $t \leq t'$, then the point $p$ is in the cone $H_K(a) \setminus H'$ with the vertex $v_K^+(a)$ not containing $v_K^+(a)$. So we have $p \cdot u_t < v_K^+(a) \cdot u_t \leq h_K(t)$ and $p \not\in e_K(t)$ as we want. For the case $t \geq t'$, we can do a similar argument with the cone $H_K(b) \setminus H'$. □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area-functional].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Then the set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve#^def-convex-curve]] is a rectifiable Jordan arc from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, and its curve area functional is ^thm-convex-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)}h_K(t)\, \sigma_K(dt).
$$

_Proof._ If $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$, then by [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] the set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to the single point $p= v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$. So for all $t \in (a, b)$, the set $e_K(t)$ is equal to $p$, and by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-surface-area-measure]] the measure $\sigma_K$ is zero on the interval $(a, b)$. So the claimed equality holds.

Now assume the case $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$. Define the convex body $K'$ containing $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$ as in [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]]. Then by (3) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]], the supporting functions $h_K(t)$ and $h_{K'}(t)$ agree on $t \in [a, b]$, and the surface area measures $\sigma_K$ and $\sigma_{K'}$ agree on $(a, b)$.

If $K'$ has empty interior, then by (iv) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] $K'$ should be the line segment connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$. So $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is the line segment from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, and by [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/10. Curve#^pro-curve-area-line-segment]] we have $\mathcal{J}(v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b)) = h_K(t') \sigma_K(t') / 2$, verifying the equality.

Now assume that $K'$ have nonempty interior. It is a well-known fact that the boundary $\partial K'$ of $K'$ is a rectifiable Jordan curve.[^convex-body-parametrization] By (3) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]], the boundary $\partial K'$ of $K'$ is the union of $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ and the line segment $s$ from $v_K^-(b)$ to $v_K^+(a)$. Since $s$ is a compact interval of $\partial K'$, it should be that $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is an oriented Jordan arc inheriting the parametrization from $\partial K'$. By [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/10. Curve#^thm-curve-area-functional-area]] we have ^eqn-uab-one
$$
|K'| = \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_K^-(b), v_K^+(a) \right) .
$$
On the other hand, by Remark 5.1.2, page 276 of [@schneider_2013] we have
$$
|K'| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in S^1} h_{K'}(t)\,\sigma_{K'}(dt).
$$
By (3) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] and [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/10. Curve#^pro-curve-area-line-segment]], this evaluates to ^eqn-uab-two
$$
|K'| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_{K}(t)\,\sigma_{K}(dt) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_K^-(b), v_K^+(a) \right).
$$
By comparing [[#^eqn-uab-one]] to [[#^eqn-uab-two]], we get the desired equality. □

> __Lemma [convex-curve-jordan-curve].__ Take any $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Assume $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$. Define $\Gamma$ as the closed curve formed by following the segment from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K(a, b)$, then the segment from $v_K(a, b)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, then the curve $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ in reverse direction. Then the followings are true. ^lem-convex-curve-jordan-curve
> 
> 1. $\Gamma$ is a counterclockwise Jordan curve.
> 2. The region $R$ enclosed by $\Gamma$ is contained in $H_K(a) \cap H_K(b)$.
> 3. The region $R$ is disjoint from the set $\cap_{t \in [a, b]} H_K(t)$. 

_Proof._ Let $s_a$ be the line segment from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K(a, b)$. Let $s_b$ be the line segment from $v_K(a, b)$ to $v_K^-(b)$. By 3-(i) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] at $t = a$, the segment $s_a$ intersects with $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ at the single point $v_K^+(a)$. Likewise, by 3-(iii) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] at $t=b$, the segment $s_b$ intersects with $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ at the single point $v_K^-(b)$. By (1) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Notations and Properties/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]], the segments $s_a$ and $s_b$ overlap at the single point $v_K(a, b)$. So the closed curve $\Gamma$ is indeed a Jordan curve, proving (1).

Because the curves $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$, $s_a$, $s_b$ are contained in $H_K(a)$ and $H_K(b)$, the region $R$ is contained in $H_K(a) \cap H_K(b)$, proving (2).

Let $X := \cap_{t \in [a, b]} H_K(t)$. Since $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$, $s_a$, $s_b$ are disjoint from the interior of $X$, the curve $\Gamma$ is contained in the region $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus X^\circ$. Because $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus X^\circ$ is simply connected, the region $R$ enclosed by $\Gamma$ is contained in $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus X^\circ$. Now the open set $R$ is disjoint from $X^\circ$, so is disjoint from $X$, showing (3). □

[^convex-body-parametrization]: We outline a proof from [@hagenvoneitzenAnswerConnectednessBoundary2015]. Translate $K'$ so that it has $(0, 0)$ in the interior of $K'$. Identifying $S^1$ with unit vectors of $\mathbb{R}^2$, define $f : \partial K' \to S^1$ as the map $\mathbf{v} \mapsto \mathbf{v} / \left| \mathbf{v} \right|$. Then the map is continuous. It is bijective by the convexity of $K$. As a continuous bijection between compact sets, $f$ is a homeomorphism and the inverse $f^{-1} : S^1 \to \partial K'$ is continuous. Rectifiability of $f^{-1}$ follows from another convexity argument.