Let $\mathcal{P}$ be a collection of polygons, either finite or infinite. The _Kakeya problem_ on $\mathcal{P}$ asks for the minimum-area union $\bigcup_{P \in \mathcal{P}} (P + \mathbf{x}_P)$ of the translates of $P \in \mathcal{P}$ with respect to $\mathbf{x}_P$. The _inverse Kakeya problem_ on $\mathcal{P}$ asks for the maximum-area intersection $\bigcap_{P \in \mathcal{P}} (P + \mathbf{x}_P)$.

The original Kakeya needle problem is recovered when $\mathcal{P}$ is 

Take any algorithm that computes the intersection of a collection of polygons, with the following property. (e.g. Weiler–Atherton clipping algorithm)

1. Assume that any information on the position is accessed by linear inequalities on the coordinates of the positions. 
2. Along the way, it incrementally updates a polygon $Q$ containing the intersection.

To analyze all cases, each query can be turned into a branch instead. We can turn it into a decision tree.

The general principle is to divide a domain into smaller pieces by half. It's a complete tree. Each node with the set $S$ of inequalities have two leaf nodes $S \cup \left\{ I \right\}$ and $S \cup \left\{ I^c \right\}$. Every leaf node denotes a nonempty subset, or is degenerate with a proof of the set being empty. Or, an upper estimate of $Q$ which is 

The moving sofa problem is $\mathcal{P}$ is the maximum-area intersection problem on the infinite collection of $H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]$ and the rotating hallways $R_t(L)$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2]$. We use this general framework to the moving sofa problem, and use domain-specific knowledge on the moving sofa problem to effectively. It is known that a maximum-area sofa should be of the intersection of such kind, and the cap and niche part can be separate.

