(Note as of Oct. 30 2023: The theorems stated from here are sketches and have not been proved yet.)

Assuming the injectivity hypothesis, we now prove Gerver's conjecture. By utilizing the first upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$, we first show that any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ that maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ should satisfy certain properties. Then, we use those properties to construct a much refined second upper bound $\mathcal{A}_2$. By maximizing $\mathcal{A}_2$, we will see that the maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_2$ is the Gerver's sofa $S_G$, and that the value of $\mathcal{A}_2$ at $S_G$ matches with the actual area $|S_G|$, completing the proof of Gerver's conjecture.

# Properties of maximizer $K$ of $\mathcal{A}(K)$

Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ be any well-behaved cap that is the maximizer of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$. Then in particular, the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ of $\mathcal{A}(K)$ should be at least the area $\mu_G = 2.2195\dots$ of Gerver's sofa. From $\mathcal{A}_1(K) \geq \mu_G$, we will show the following.

> __Theorem [left-right].__ For any $t < \pi / 4$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is always strictly on the right side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. ^thm-left-right

Assume the contrary, then it should be that $f(K) = \left( \mathbf{x}_K(t) -\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4) \right) \cdot u_0 \geq 0$ for some $t < \pi/4$ where $f$ is a linear functional on $K$. We maximize $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ on the convex subspace $f(K) \geq 0$, and show that the maximum is strictly less than $\mu_G$, showing that it is impossible for $K$ to maximize $\mathcal{A}(K)$.

(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: The proof is not done. But a numerical approximation of the problem has been done, and it suggests a solution 'pre-sofa' consisting of two stages of movement (as Gerver's sofa has five stages described by Romik). Explicitly writing down the constants and working out complicated symbols is the part that will take the most time, but the theoretical method follows the tools and flow derivation of maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_1$.)

> __Theorem [left-right-right].__ For any $t > \pi / 4$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is always strictly on the left side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. ^thm-left-right-right

With [[01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-left-right]], we can now define the convex curve $\mathbf{b}_K$ which is the envelope of the lines $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\pi/2, \pi/4]$. Define $\mathbf{b}_K$ as the curve that starts with $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$ and ends with the point $A^-_K(0)$, with tangent lines $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\pi/2, \pi/4]$. The curve $\mathbf{d}_K$ is the curve that starts with the point $C^+_K(\pi/2)$ and ends with the point $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. [[01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-left-right]] ensures that the region under both $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{d}_K$ are subsets of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. That is, $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{d}_K$ corresponds to the extensions of the tails of the Gerver's sofa.

Next, we show the following, again by showing that for any possible counterexample $K$ we have the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ strictly less than $\mu_G$ by solving the convex optimization problem on $\mathcal{A}_1$.

> __Theorem [corner-above-tail].__ For any $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_m)$ always strictly above the line $b_K(t)$ for $\psi_m = \pi/6$. By symmetry, for any $t \in [0, \pi/4]$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_m)$ strictly above the line $d_K(t)$. ^thm-corner-above-tail

With [[01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-corner-above-tail]], observe that $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_m)$ is strictly above the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is on the $x$-axis. So by intermediate value theorem, there is a value $\psi_R$ of $t \in [0, \psi_M]$ such that $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ is exactly on the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$. Take the convex segment $\mathbf{r}$ of $\mathbf{b}$ that connects $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ and $A^-_K(0)$. Because $\mathbf{r}$ is a part of the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$, we should have $p_K(t) - p_\mathbf{r}(t) \leq 1$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/4]$. Likewise, there is a maximum value $\psi_L \in [0, \psi_M]$ such that (...). Now the tuple $(K, \mathbf{l}, \mathbf{r})$ is a member of the following space of caps and tails.

> __Definition [cap-tail-space].__ Let $\psi_R, \psi_L \in [0, \psi_{\text{max}}]$ be arbitrary constants. Define the space $\mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L}$ as the tuple $(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l})$ of a cap $K$ with angle set $[0, \pi/2]$, convex curve $\mathbf{r}$ with normal angle $[-3\pi/2, -\pi/2]$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ to $A^-_K(0)$, and convex curve $\mathbf{l}$ with normal angle $[-\pi/2, -\pi/4]$ from $C_K^+(\pi/2)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_L)$, such that they satisfy the constraints $p_K(t) - p_\mathbf{r}(t) \leq 1$ and (...). ^def-cap-tail-space

> __Definition [cap-tail-space-functional].__ Define $\mathcal{A}_2 : \mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L} \to \mathbb{R}$ as the functional ^def-cap-tail-space-functional
$$
\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l}) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{l}) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{r})
$$

Observe that the area under the concatenation of curves $\mathbf{l}$, $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{r}$ is always a subset of $\mathcal{N}(K)$. So for our $K$, we have $\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l}) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ by (some lemma stating comparison between auc and $\mathcal{I}$). In this sense, $\mathcal{A}_2$ is an upper bound of our area functional $\mathcal{A}$. Also note that for the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa and its tails $\mathbf{r}_G$ and $\mathbf{l}_G$, we have $\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}_G, \mathbf{l}_G) = \mathcal{A}(K)$. This combined with the following theorem proves Gerver's conjecture.

> __Theorem [main-calculation].__ For any $0 \leq \psi_R, \psi_L \leq \psi_{\max}$, the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_{2}^{\psi_R, \psi_L}\left( K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l} \right)$ is at most the area $\mu_G$ of Gerver's sofa. ^thm-main-calculation