(Disclosure as of Oct. 30 2023: The theorems stated from here are sketches and have not been proved completely yet.)

Assuming the injectivity hypothesis, we now prove Gerver's conjecture. By utilizing the first upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$, we first show that any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ that maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ should satisfy certain properties. Then, we use those properties to construct a much refined second upper bound $\mathcal{A}_2$. By maximizing $\mathcal{A}_2$, we will see that the maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_2$ is the Gerver's sofa $S_G$, and that the value of $\mathcal{A}_2$ at $S_G$ matches with the actual area $|S_G|$, completing the proof of Gerver's conjecture. 

Assume that $S$ is any monotone sofa with maximum area. With injectivity hypothesis, we can assume that the cap $K$ of $S$ is well-behaved. Also, we should have $\mathcal{A}_1(K) \geq \mu_G = 2.2195\dots$ because $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area of $S$, and the movoing sofa $S$ should have area at least that of Gerver's sofa. We can then prove the following facts by solving for the convex optimization problem on $\mathcal{A}_1$.

> __Theorem [left-right].__ For any $t < \pi / 4$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is always strictly on the left side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. Likewise, for any $t > \pi / 4$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is always strictly on the left side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. ^thm-left-right

With [[30. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview#^thm-left-right]], we can now define the convex curve $\mathbf{b}_K$ which is the envelope of the lines $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\pi/2, \pi/4]$.

The curve $\mathbf{b}_K$ is the curve that starts with $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$ and ends with the point $A^-_K(0)$, with tangent lines $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\pi/2, \pi/4]$. The curve $\mathbf{d}_K$ is the curve that starts with the point $C^+_K(\pi/2)$ and ends with the point $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. [[30. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview#^thm-left-right]] ensures that the region under both $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{d}_K$ are subsets of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. That is, $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{d}_K$ mimics the tails of the Gerver's sofa.

Next, we show the following again by solving the convex optimization problem on $\mathcal{A}_1$. Again we delegate the proof to (some section).

> __Theorem [corner-above-tail].__ For any $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_m)$ always strictly above the line $b_K(t)$ for $\psi_m = \pi/6$. By symmetry, for any $t \in [0, \pi/4]$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_m)$ strictly above the line $d_K(t)$. ^thm-corner-above-tail

With [[30. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview#^thm-corner-above-tail]], observe that $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_m)$ is strictly above the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$, and as $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is on the $x$-axis, $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is on or below the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$. So by continuity of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ as $t$ decreases from $\psi_m$ to $0$, there is a maximum value $\psi_R$ of $t \in [0, \psi_M]$ such that $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ is exactly on the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$. Take the convex curve $\mathbf{r}$ that starts from $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ and follows $\mathbf{b}_K$ with the set $[0, \pi/4]$ of normal angles. Because $\mathbf{r}$ is a part of the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$, we should have $p_K(t) - p_\mathbf{r}(t) \leq 1$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/4]$. Likewise, there is a maximum value $\psi_L \in [0, \psi_M]$ such that (...). Then the tuple $(K, \mathbf{l}, \mathbf{r})$ is a member of the following space of caps and tails.

> __Definition [cap-tail-space].__ Let $\psi_R, \psi_L \in [0, \psi_{\text{max}}]$ be arbitrary constants. Define the space $\mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L}$ as the tuple $(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l})$ of a cap $K$ with angle set $[0, \pi/2]$, convex curve $\mathbf{r}$ with normal angle $[-3\pi/2, -\pi/2]$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ to $A^-_K(0)$, and convex curve $\mathbf{l}$ with normal angle $[-\pi/2, -\pi/4]$ from $C_K^+(\pi/2)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_L)$, such that they satisfy the constraints $p_K(t) - p_\mathbf{r}(t) \leq 1$ and (...). ^def-cap-tail-space

> __Definition [cap-tail-space-functional].__ Define $\mathcal{A}_2 : \mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L} \to \mathbb{R}$ as the functional ^def-cap-tail-space-functional
$$
\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l}) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{l}) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{r})
$$

Observe that the area under the concatenation of curves $\mathbf{l}$, $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{r}$ is always a subset of $\mathcal{N}(K)$. So for our $K$, we have $\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l}) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ by (some lemma stating comparison between auc and $\mathcal{I}$). In this sense, $\mathcal{A}_2$ is an upper bound of our area functional $\mathcal{A}$. Also note that for the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa and its tails $\mathbf{r}_G$ and $\mathbf{l}_G$, we have $\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}_G, \mathbf{l}_G) = \mathcal{A}(K)$. This combined with the following theorem proves Gerver's conjecture.

> __Theorem [main-calculation].__ For any $0 \leq \psi_R, \psi_L \leq \psi_{\max}$, the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_{2}^{\psi_R, \psi_L}\left( K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l} \right)$ is at most the area $\mu_G$ of Gerver's sofa. ^thm-main-calculation

We defer the proof of [[30. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview#^thm-main-calculation]] to section xx.