Recall that for any $K \in \mathcal{K}$, the vertex $v_K^+(t)$ is right-continuous with respect to $t \in S^1$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]). It is also of bounded variation, so the pair $\mathrm{d} v_K^+(t)$ of Lebesgue--Stieltjes measures of the $x$- and $y$-coordinates of $v_K^+(t)$ exists.

> __Lemma [vertex-bounded-variation].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and any interval $[a, b]$ of $S^1$, the function $v_K^+ : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is of bounded variation. ^lem-vertex-bounded-variation

_Proof._ For the interval $t \in [0, \pi/4]$, observe that the $x$-coordinate (resp. $y$-coordinate) of $v_K^+(t)$ monotonically decreases (resp. increases) with respect to $t$, so $v_K^+$ is of bounded variation on $[0, \pi/4]$. A similar logic can be used to angles $[\pi/4, \pi/2]$, $[\pi/2, 3\pi/4]$, and $[3\pi/4, 2\pi]$. Any larger domain $[a, b]$ of $t$ can be divided into such intervals or their subintervals. □

[[#^thm-boundary-measure]] evaluates $\mathrm{d} v_K^+(t)$ in terms of the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ of $K$. This will be used frequently.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure].__ For every half-open interval $I := (a, b]$ of $S^1$ where $a < b \leq a + 2\pi$, the equality ^thm-boundary-measure
$$
\mathrm{d} v_K^{+}(t) = v_t \, \sigma_K
$$
> of pairs of measures on $I$ holds, where $v_K^+(t) : I \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and $v_t : I \to \mathbb{R}^2$ are taken as functions of $t \in I$.

Note that the notations $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_t$ denote different things: $v_K^+(t)$ is a vertex of the convex body $K$, while $v_t$ is the direction $(- \sin t, \cos t)$ independent of $K$. Integrating [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] on any bounded measurable function $p : I \to \mathbb{R}^2$, we get
$$
\int_{t \in I} p(t) \cdot d v_K^+(t) = \int_{t \in I} (p(t) \cdot v_t) \,\sigma(dt).
$$

> __Remark [gauss-minkowski].__ A well-known theorem, sometimes referred as the _Gauss-Minkowski theorem_, states that any planar convex body $K$ corresponds bijectively to a Borel measure $\sigma := \sigma_K$ on $S^1$ satisfying $\int_{t \in S^1} v_t\,\sigma(dt) = 0$ up to translation. [[#^thm-boundary-measure]] can be seen as a differential version of this theorem, as we can recover the correspondence from integrating [[#^thm-boundary-measure]]. ^rem-gauss-minkowski
> 
> - By integrating both sides of [[#^thm-boundary-measure]] over all $t \in S^1$, we immediately the equality $\int_{t \in S^1} v_t\,\sigma_K(dt) = 0$ which is one part of the Gauss-Minkowski theorem.
> - For any Borel measure $\sigma$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{t \in S^1} v_t\,\sigma(dt) = 0$, we can recover $K$ with $\sigma_K = \sigma$ by taking $K$ as the convex hull of the partial integrals $v^-(s) := \int_{[0, s)} v_{t} \, \sigma(dt)$ and $v^+(s) := \int_{[0, s]} v_t\,\sigma(dt)$ of [[#^thm-boundary-measure]] for all $s \in (0, 2\pi]$. While we omit the details, it is easy to see that such points are in convex position and $v^{\pm}(s) = v_K^{\pm}(s)$, so that $\sigma_K = \sigma$.

_Proof._ (of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]]) It suffices to check that the pairs of measures $\mathrm{d} v_K^{+}(t)$ and $u_t \, \sigma$ agree on the subset $(a, x]$ of $I$ for any $x \in I$. That is, we only need to check ^eqn-boundary-to-check
$$
v_K^+(x) - v_K^+(a) = \int_{t \in (a, x]} v_t\,\sigma_K(dt).
$$

We first show [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^eqn-boundary-to-check]] for polygon $K$. For polygon $K$, the measure $\sigma_K$ is a discrete measure where each proper edge $e_K(t)$ of $K$ with normal angle $t$ corresponds to a point mass of $\sigma_K$ concentrated at $t$ with the weight $\sigma_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right)$ which is the length of $e_K(t)$. So the right-hand side of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^eqn-boundary-to-check]] is the sum of all vectors $v_t \sigma_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = v_K^+(t) - v_K^-(t)$ over all normal angles $t \in (a, x]$ of proper edges of $K$. The telescopic sum is the left-hand side $v_K^+(x) - v_K^+(a)$ as we want.

Now we prove [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^eqn-boundary-to-check]] for general convex body $K$. As in the proof of Theorem 8.3.3, page 466 of [[@schneider_2013]], we can take a series $K_1, K_2, \dots$ of polygons converging to $K$ in the Hausdorff distance $d_\mathrm{H}$ such that $e_{K_n}(a) = e_{K}(a)$ and $e_{K_n}(x) = e_{K}(x)$ for all $n \geq 1$. By Theorem 4.2.1, page 212 of [[@schneider_2013]], the measure $\sigma_{K_n}$ on $S^1$ converges to $\sigma_K$ weakly as $n \to \infty$.

For any measure $\sigma$ on $S^1$, define the _restriction_ $\sigma|_A$ of $\sigma$ to a Borel subset $A \subseteq S^1$ as the measure on $S^1$ such that $\sigma|_A(X) = \sigma(A \cap X)$ for all Borel subset $X \subseteq S^1$. Define $U$ as the open set $S^1 \setminus \left\{ a, x \right\}$ of $S^1$, and $V$ as the open interval $(a, x)$ of $S^1$. Define $u_n$ and $u$ as the restriction of $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ to $U$, then $u_n$ converges to $u$ weakly as $n \to \infty$ because $\sigma_{K_n}(\{a\}) = \sigma_{K}(\{a\})$ and $\sigma_{K_n}(\{x\}) = \sigma_{K}(\{x\})$.

Define $\lambda_n$ and $\lambda$ as the restriction of $\sigma_{K_n}$ and $\sigma_K$ to $V$. We will prove that $\lambda_n \to \lambda$ weakly as $n \to \infty$. Take any continuity set $X \subseteq S^1$ of $\lambda$ so that $\lambda(\partial X) = 0$. By the Portmanteau theorem on finite measures, it suffices to show $\lambda_n(X) \to \lambda(X)$. Because $\partial(X \cap V) \subseteq (\partial X \cap V) \cup \partial V$, and both $u(\partial X \cap V) = \lambda(\partial X)$ and $u(\partial V)$ are zero, the set $X \cap V$ is a continuity set of $u$. So $u_n(X \cap V) \to u(X \cap V)$ and thus $\lambda_n(X) \to \lambda(X)$ as $n \to \infty$. This completes the proof that $\lambda_n \to \lambda$ weakly as $n \to \infty$.

Now take the limit $n \to \infty$ to the [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^eqn-boundary-to-check]] for polygons $K_n$:
$$
v_{K_n}^+(x) - v_{K_n}^+(a) = \int_{t \in (a, x]} v_t \, \sigma_{K_n}(dt).
$$
The left-hand side is equal to $v_K^+(x) - v_K^+(a)$ by $e_{K_n}(a) = e_{K}(a)$ and $e_{K_n}(x) = e_{K}(x)$. The right-hand side is equal to
$$
(v_{K_n}^+(x) - v_{K_n}^-(x)) + \int_{t \in S^1} v_t \, \lambda_n(dt)
$$
and by $e_{K_n}(x) = e_{K}(x)$ and the weak convergence $\lambda_n \to \lambda$, the expression converges to
$$
(v_{K}^+(x) - v_{K}^-(x)) + \int_{t \in S^1} v_t \, \lambda(dt) = \int_{t \in (a, x]} v_t\, \sigma_{K}(dt)
$$
thus completing the proof of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/20. Surface Area Measure#^eqn-boundary-to-check]] for general convex body $K$. □