In this section, we calculate the directional derivative $D\mathcal{A}_1(K; -)$ of $\mathcal{A}_1$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^def-convex-space-directional-derivative]]) at any $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$. As $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = \left| K \right| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$, we calculate the directional derivative of $|K|$ and $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ separately.

First we calculate the derivative of the area $|K|$ with respect to $K$.

> __Theorem [convex-body-area-variation].__ Let $K$ and $K'$ be arbitrary convex bodies. Then we have ^thm-convex-body-area-variation
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} \left| (1-\lambda) K + \lambda K' \right|  = \left< p_{K'} - p_K , \beta_K \right>_{S^1}.
$$

_Proof._ For any convex body $K$ we have $|K| = V(K, K)$ where $V$ is the mixed volume of two planar convex bodies. So by applying [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $|K| = V(K, K)$ and using that $V(K, K') = V(K', K)$, we have the following.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} \left| (1-\lambda) K + \lambda K' \right| = 2V(K', K) - 2V(K, K)  
$$
By applying [[c. Upper Bound A1/A1. Convex bodies/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-measure-area]] we get the result. □

We now calculate the derivative of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ with respect to $K$. We have the following general calculation for the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ be two rectifiable curves. Then the following holds. ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2) = \left[ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))  \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t) \right] +  \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a), \mathbf{x}_1(a))
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on rectifiable $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. Apply [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get ^eqn-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} 2\mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1) - 2 \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_1).
$$
Using the integration by parts ([[c. Upper Bound A1/A1. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]), we have
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t) = \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}_2(t) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)
$$
or
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a) - \mathbf{x}_2(a)) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1).
$$
Plug this back in [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^eqn-variation-curve]] and rearrange to get the claimed equality in [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-curve]]. □

We introduce a measure $\iota_K$ to calculate the derivative of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ with respect to cap $K$.

> __Definition [i-cap].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$, define the function $i_K : J_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = h_K^+(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = g^+_K(t) - 1$ for every $t \in [0, \omega]$. Define $\iota_K$ as the measure on $J_\omega$ derived from the density function $i_K$. That is, $\iota_K(dt) = i_K(t) dt$. ^def-i-cap

[[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]] is motivated by the following lemma.

> __Lemma [i-cap].__ Let $I \subseteq [0, \omega]$ be an arbitrary Borel subset. Let $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$ be arbitrary. Then the following holds. ^lem-i-cap
$$
\int_{t \in I} \mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_{K_2} (t) = \left< p_{K_1} - 1, \iota_{K_2} \right>_{I \cup (I + \pi/2)} 
$$

_Proof._ By [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] and [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^pro-arm-length-unsigned]], the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_{K_2}(t)$ with respect to $t$ exists almost everywhere and is the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_2}(t) = -(g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) u_t + (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) v_t
$$
Meanwhile, we have the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) u_t + 
(p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) v_t
$$
So the cross-product $\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \times \mathbf{x}_{K_2}'(t)$ is equal to the following almost everywhere.
$$
(h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1)
$$
Now the left-hand side is equal to
$$
\int_{t \in J} (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) \, dt
$$
and by [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]] this integral is equal to $\left< p_{K_1} - 1, \iota_{K_2} \right>_{I \cup (I + \pi/2)}$. □

> __Theorem [variation-a1].__ Let $K_1$ and $K_2$ be two caps in $\mathcal{K}_{\omega}$. Then we have the following. ^thm-variation-a1
$$
D\mathcal{A}_1(K_1; K_2) = \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}_1((1 - \lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2)
= \left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1}, \beta_{K_1} - \iota_{K_1} \right>_{J_\omega}
$$

_Proof._ We have $\mathcal{A}_1(K) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$. Apply [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-convex-body-area-variation]] to the term $|K|$ to have the following.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} \left| (1-\lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2 \right|  = \left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1} , \beta_{K_1} \right>_{S^1}
$$
Note that $\beta_{K_1}$ and $\beta_{K_2}$ are supported on the set $J_\omega \cup \left\{ \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$, and both $p_{K_2}$ and $p_{K_1}$ have function value equal to 1 on the set $\left\{ \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$. So we have $\left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1} , \beta_{K_1} \right>_{S^1} = \left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1} , \beta_{K_1} \right>_{J_\omega}$.

Apply [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-curve]] to the term $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$, and use that the points $O$, $\mathbf{x}_{K}(0)$, and $A^-_K(0)$ (respectively, the points $O$, $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega)$, and $C_K^+(\omega)$) are colinear to get the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_{K_1} + \lambda \mathbf{x}_{K_2}) & = \int_0^{\omega} (\mathbf{x}_{K_2}(t) - \mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t)) \times d\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \\
& = \left< p_{K_2} - p_{K_1}, \iota_{K_1} \right> 
\end{align*}
$$
The second equality comes from applying [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^lem-i-cap]] twice. Subtract the derivates of $|K|$ and $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ above to conclude the proof. □

We explain the intuitive meaning of [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]] by comparing it to the local optimization argument of Theorem 2 in [@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]. Assume for the sake of explanation that $S$ is a monotone sofa of rotation angle $\pi/2$ with cap $K$, such that the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is exactly the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$. Assume that our cap $K$ has vertices $A_K(t) = A_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $C_K(t) = C_K^{\pm}(t)$ continuously differentiable with respect to $t$. Assume also that $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is continuously differentiable.

Take an arbitrary angle $t_0$ and fix small positive $\delta$ and $\epsilon$. In [@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018], Romik pertubed the sofa $S$ to obtain a new sofa $S'$ as the following. Initially, the monotone sofa $S = H \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq t \leq \pi/2} L_K(t)$ is the intersection of rotating hallways $L_K(t)$. For every $t \in [0, \pi/2]$, Romik pertubed each hallway $L_K(t)$ to a new hallways $L'(t)$ as the following.

- For every $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \delta]$, let $L'(t) = L_K(t) + \epsilon u_t$.
- For every other $t$, let $L'(t) = L_K(t)$.

That is, we move $L_S(t)$ in the direction of $\epsilon u_t$ for only $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \delta]$. Now define $S' = H \cap \bigcap_{0 \leq u \leq \pi/2} L'(u)$ so that $S'$ is a sofa which is a slight perturbation of $S$. If $S$ attains the maximum area, it should be that $S'$ has area equal to or less than $S$.

We now compare the area of $S$ and $S'$. As we perturb $S$ to $S'$, some area is gained near $A_K(t_0)$ as the walls $a_K(t)$ are pushed in the direction of $\epsilon u_t$ for $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \delta]$. The gain near $A_K(t_0)$ is approximately $\epsilon \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t_0) \right\rVert$, as the shape of the gain is approximately a rectangle of sides $A_K(t_0 + \delta) - A_K(t_0) \simeq \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t_0) \right\rVert v_0$ and $\epsilon u_{t_0}$. Likewise, some area is lost near $\mathbf{x}_K(t_0)$ as we perturb $S$ to $S'$ as the corners $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ are pushed in the direction of $\epsilon u_t$ for $t \in [t_0, t_0 + \delta]$. The loss near $\mathbf{x}_K(t_0)$ is $\epsilon \delta \mathbf{x}_K'(t_0) \cdot v_{t_0}$ as the shape of the loss is approximately a parallelogram of sides $\delta \mathbf{x}_K'(t_0)$ and $\epsilon u_{t_0}$. So the total gain of area from $S$ to $S'$ is approximately $\epsilon \delta \left(  \left\lVert A_K'(t_0) \right\rVert - \mathbf{x}'(t_0) \cdot v_{t_0} \right)$. In [@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018], Romik solved for the critical condition $\left\lVert A_K'(t_0) \right\rVert = \mathbf{x}_K'(t_0) \cdot v_{t_0}$ (and another condition $\left\lVert C_K'(t_0) \right\rVert = - \mathbf{x}_K'(t_0) \cdot u_{t_0}$ obtained by perturbing each $L_K(t)$ in the orthogonal direction of $\epsilon v_{t_0}$) to derive an ordinary differential equation of $\mathbf{x}_K$ (ODE3 of Theorem 2, [@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018]).

We now observe that this total gain of area $\epsilon \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t) \right\rVert - \epsilon \delta \mathbf{x}'(t) \cdot v_t$ is captured in [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]]. The perturbation of hallways from $L_K(t)$ to $L'(t)$ in $\epsilon u_t$ can be described in terms of their support functions as $p_{K'} = p_K + \epsilon 1_{[t, t + \delta]}$. Correspondingly, the value $\left< p_{K'} - p_{K}, \beta_{K}  \right>_{[0, \pi]} = \epsilon \beta_{K}((t, t + \delta])$ is approximately $\epsilon \delta \left\lVert A_K'(t) \right\rVert$ which is equal to the gain of $|K|$ near $A_K(t)$. The value $\left< p_{K'} - p_{K}, \iota_{K}  \right>_{[0, \pi]} = \epsilon \iota_{K}((t, t + \delta])$, by [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] and [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]], is approximately $\epsilon \delta \mathbf{x}_{K}'(t) \cdot v_t$ which is equal to the loss of area by the gain of $\mathcal{N}(K)$ near $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$. Summing up, we have $\left< p_{K'} - p_{K}, \beta_{K} -  \iota_{K}  \right>_{[0, \pi]}$ measuring the total difference in the area of $S$.

To summarize, the values $(p_{K'} - p_{K})(t)$ and $(p_{K'} - p_{K})(t + \pi/2)$ measures the movement of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ along the direction $u_t$ and $v_t$ respectively. Then the measure $\beta_{K}$ near $t$ and $t + \pi/2$ respectively measures the differential side lengths of the boundary of $K$ near $A_K(t)$ and $C_K(t)$ respectively. Likewise, $i_K(t)$ and $i_K(t + \pi/2)$ measures the component of $\mathbf{x}'(t)$ in direction of $v_t$ and $-u_t$ respectively. The formula in [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]] multiplies the contribution of change in $p_K$ with , to get the change in total area of $S$ for angle $t$. Then the formula in [[c. Upper Bound A1/25. Conditional upper bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^thm-variation-a1]] sums this change in area over all $t$ to get the derivative of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ with respect to $K$.