The materials given here are part of a larger plan towards the full Gerver's conjecture. Here, we briefly mention a strategy for proving the injectivity hypothesis. 

Instead of proving injectivity on the whole interval, let us first focus on proving the injectivity theorem on a limited interval, say $t \in [35^\circ, 55^\circ]$. It suffices to show that in this interval, we have $\mathbf{x}'(t) \cdot (-1, 0) > 0$. By using [[03. Space of Caps#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] it suffices to show $g_K^+(t) - 1 > 0$. There is an effective bound that uses $g_K(t_1, t_2)$ so that this can be shown effectively. 

This reduces the problem of bounding to bounding parameters of a finite number of angle. It is done by using a custom software called the `SofaDesigner`. It essentially solves for the exact space of hallway intersections with prescribed set of angles. If the order of edges appearing in the niche is determined, then the area formula is completely determined. The software uses branch-and-bound algorithm to judge if a point is either above or below a line, and uses that information to determine finer lower bounds of the niche. 

A natural way to approximate a sofa is to take intersection of a finite number of hallways rotate by a fixed list of angles $\theta_1, \dots, \theta_n$. A monotone sofa is described by corners and sides .... This can be expressed both in coordinates $x$ and $p$. We can consider the space of 
Essentially, what romik-kallus has shown is that as angles increase, the domain approximates sufficiently enough. 

Why do we expect this strategy to hold? That is, why do we expect to approximate the value ?
That is where we go back to Romik's approach. Essentially, what they have shown is that there is an epsilon-partition of $\mathcal{K}$. And in each piece, we can approximate the area uniformly. We can understand what part of the sofa space attains an area of at least that of Gerver's sofa, up to epsilon difference. 

We expect the Gerver's sofa to be the unique maximum. Indeed, XX has shown. If this is the case, the software will be able to prove that in finite time.



%%
For further details and upcoming plans on how to approach the sofa problem, the website 

contains an up-to-date information on the progress of this program.
%%