Define the _arm lengths_ $f_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ of tangent hallways of a cap $K$ as the following.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ be arbitrary. For any $t \in [0, \omega]$, let $f_K^+(t)$ (resp. $f_K^-(t)$) be the unique real value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^+_K(t) + f_K^+(t) v_t$ (resp. $\mathbf{y}(t) = A^-_K(t) + f_K^-(t) v_t$). Similarly, let $g_K^+(t)$ (resp. $g_K^-(t)$) be the unique real value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = C^+_K(t) + g_K^+(t) u_t$ (resp. $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^-_K(t) + g_K^-(t) u_t$). ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length

Observe that the point $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and the vertices $C_K^{\pm}(t)$ are on the tangent line $c_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_t$. Likewise $y_K(t)$ and $A_K^{\pm}(t)$ are on the tangent line $a_K(t)$ in the direction of $v_t$. So [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^def-cap-tangent-arm-length]] is well-defined. For the same reason, we also have the following equations.

> __Proposition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and $t \in [0, \omega]$ be arbitrary. Then $f_K^{\pm}(t) = \left( C_K^{\pm}(t) - A_K^{\pm}(t) \right) \cdot v_t$ and $g_K^{\pm}(t) = (A_K^{\pm}(t) - C_K^{\pm}(t)) \cdot u_t$. ^pro-cap-tangent-arm-length

The derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K$ can be expressed in terms of the arm lengths of $K$.

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}$, the right derivative of the outer and inner corner $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ exists for any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^+ \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -f_K^+(t) u_t + g_K^+(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(f_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K^+(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, the left derivative of $\mathbf{y}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \omega$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
	\partial^- \mathbf{y}_K(t) = -f_K^-(t) u_t + g_K^-(t) v_t \qquad \partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(f_K^-(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K^-(t) - 1) v_t
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$ in vertices $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ and tangent lines $a_K(t)$. Take any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We evaluate $\partial^+ \mathbf{y}(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{y}(s) - \mathbf{y}(t)) / \delta$. Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$ and $A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_s$. Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t).
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with $\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t$, then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{y}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{y}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. We get the following limit as $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$ ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]).
$$ \partial^+ (\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot u_t)  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{y}(t)) \cdot v_t = - g^+(t)$$
A similar argument can be applied to show $\partial^+ (\mathbf{y}(t) \cdot v_t) = h^+(t)$ and thus the first equation of the theorem. The right derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ comes from $\mathbf{x}_K(t) = \mathbf{y}_K(t) - u_t - v_t$. A symmetric argument calculates the left derivative of $\mathbf{y}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K$. □

We prepare some observations on arm lengths that will be used later.

> __Remark [inner-corner-deriv].__ The resulting equation $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t) = -(f_K^+(t) - 1) u_t + (g_K^+(t) - 1) v_t$ in [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] can be interpreted intuitively as the following. Imagine the hallway $L_K(t)$ where we increment $t$ slightly by $\epsilon > 0$. If $\epsilon$ is very small, the wall $c_K(t)$ rotates around the pivot $C_K^+(t)$. As $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ rotates differentially with the pivot $C_K^+(t)$ as center, the $v_t$ component $g_K^+(t) - 1$ of the derivative $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is the distance from the pivot $C_K^+(t)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ measured in the direction of $u_t$. The $u_t$ component $-(f_K^+(t) - 1)$ of $\partial^+ \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ can be interpreted similarly as the distance from pivot $A^+_K(t)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ along the direction $v_t$. ^rem-inner-corner-deriv

Except for a countable number of $t$, we do not need to differentiate $f_K^+(t)$ and $f_K^-(t)$ (and likewise for $g_K^{\pm}(t)$).

> __Definition [arm-length-unsinged].__ For any cap $K$ of rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$, if $f_K^+(t) = f_K^-(t)$ (resp. $g_K^+(t) = g_K^-(t)$) then simply denote the matching value as $f_K(t)$ (resp. $g_K(t)$). ^def-arm-length-unsinged

> __Proposition [arm-length-unsigned].__ Let $K$ be any cap of rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and take any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$. The condition $f_K^+(t) = f_K^-(t)$ (resp. $g_K^+(t) = g_K^-(t)$) holds if and only if $\beta_K(\left\{ t \right\}) = 0$ (resp. $\beta_K(\left\{ t + \pi/2 \right\}) = 0$) by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-singleton]]. So $f_K$ and $g_K$ are almost everywhere defined and integrable functions on $[0, \omega]$. ^pro-arm-length-unsigned

By [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^pro-cap-tangent-arm-length]] and [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]] we have the following.

> __Corollary [arm-length-continuity].__ Let $K$ be any cap of rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and take any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$. If $t > 0$, then $f_K^{\pm}(u) \to f_K^-(t)$ and $g_K^{\pm}(u) \to g_K^-(t)$ as $u \to t^-$. If $t < \omega$, then $f_K^{\pm}(u) \to f_K^+(t)$ and $g_K^{\pm}(u) \to g_K^+(t)$ as $u \to t^+$. ^cor-arm-length-continuity

> __Proposition [inner-corner-lipschitz].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}$ is Lipschitz. ^pro-inner-corner-lipschitz

_Proof._ The support function $p_K$ of $K$ is Lipschitz ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-support-function-lipschitz]]), so
$$
\mathbf{x}_K(t) = (p_K(t) - 1) u_t + (p_K(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t
$$
is also Lipschitz. □

Thus $\mathbf{x}_K$ is rectifiable and the value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ is well-defined.

> __Theorem [arm-length-surface-area-measure].__ The values $f^+_K(t)$ and $g_K^+(t)$ are right-differentiable and of bounded variation. Moreover, their Lebesgue-Stieltjes measures are ^thm-arm-length-surface-area-measure
$$
\delta f_K^+ = g_K^+(t) \cdot \lambda_1 + 
$$

_Proof._  □