We first establish the horizontal side length comparison in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^thm-balanced-maximum-sofa-ineq]], which is a crucial step in the proof of main [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]].

> __Definition [wedge-gap-infimum].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$, define $w_K^\circ := \inf_{t \in (0, \omega)} w_K(t)$ and $z_K^\circ := \inf_{t \in (0, \omega)} z_K(t)$. ^def-wedge-gap-infimum

> __Lemma [wedge-gap-limit].__ Assume that $\omega < \pi/2$ and the caps $K, K' \in \mathcal{K}_\omega^\mathrm{c}$ have Hausdorff distance $\epsilon := d_\mathrm{H}(K, K')$. Then $|w_K^{\circ} - w_{K'}^{\circ}| \leq (1 + \sec \omega) \epsilon$ ^lem-wedge-gap-limit

_Proof._ Since $d_\mathrm{H}$ is the supremum norm between $h_K$ and $h_{K'}$, the distance between $l_K(t)$ and $l_{K'}(t)$ is at most $\epsilon$. So the distance between $W_K(t) = l_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ and $W_{K'}(t)$ is at most $\epsilon \sec \omega$. As $|h_K(0) - h_{K'}(0)|\leq \epsilon$ the distance between $A_K^-(0)$ and $A_{K'}^-(0)$ is at most $\epsilon$. So $w_K(t) = (A_K^-(0) - W_K(t)) \cdot u_0$ and $w_{K'}(t)$ differ by at most $(1 + \sec \omega) \epsilon$. □

> __Theorem [balanced-polygon-sofa-ineq].__ For any maximum polygon cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$ of rotation angle $\omega < \pi/2$, we have $w_K^{\circ} \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$ and $z_K^{\circ} \leq \sigma_K(\omega)$. ^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa-ineq

_Proof._ By mirror symmetry, we only need to show $w_K^{\circ} \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$.

Take any $t \in \Theta$. Define the closed segment $s_t$ of length $w_K(t)$ connecting $W_K(t)$ to $A_K^-(0)$ from left to right. By [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]], $s_t$ is on the right side of the boundary $b_K(t)$ of the wedge $T_K(t)$. So $s_t$ is disjoint from $T_K(t)$.

Let $s$ be the intersection of the edge $e_K(3\pi/2)$ from $O$ to $A_K^-(0)$ and the segment $s_t$ over all $t \in \Theta$. Since each $s_t$ is disjoint from $T_K(t)$, the segment $s$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) = \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} T_K(t)$.

We will also check that $s$ have length $\geq w_K^\circ$. Since both $e_K(3\pi/2)$ and $s_t$ have right endpoint $A_K^-(0)$, it suffices to check that both $e_K(3\pi/2)$ and $s_t$ have length $\geq w_K^\circ$. For any $t \in (0, \omega)$, the point $W_K(t)$ is the intersection of lines $l(t, h_K(t) - 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 0)$, we have
$$
\lim_{ t \to \omega^- } W_K(t) = l(\omega, h_K(\omega) - 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 0) = O.
$$
So
$$
\lim_{ t \to \omega^- } w_K(t) = \lim_{ t \to \omega^- } (A_K^-(0) - W_K(t)) \cdot u_0 = h_K(0)
$$
which is the length of $e_K(3\pi/2)$. So $e_K(3\pi/2)$ have length $\geq w_K^\circ$. For any $t \in \Theta$, the segment $s_t$ have length $w_K(t)$ so it has length $\geq w_K^\circ$. Thus $s$ have length $\geq w_K^\circ$.

Then $s$ is a segment of length $\geq w_K^{\circ}$ in the edge $e_K(3\pi/2)$ disjoint from $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$. So we have
$$
\mathcal{H}^1(s) + \mathcal{H}^1(\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap e_K(3\pi/2)) \leq \mathcal{H}^1(e_K(3\pi/2))
$$
which becomes
$$
w_K^{\circ} + \sigma_K(3\pi/2) - \tau_K(\pi/2) \leq \sigma_K(3\pi/2)
$$
by (2) of [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-polyline-length]]. So we have $w_K^{\circ} \leq \tau_K(\pi/2)$. By the balancedness of $K$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa]]), we have $\tau_K(\pi/2) \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$, so the result follows. □

> __Theorem [balanced-maximum-sofa-ineq].__ For $\omega < \pi/2$, any balanced maximum cap $K := K_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega$ satisfies $\sigma_K(\pi/2) \geq w_K^\circ$ and $\sigma_K(\omega) \geq z_K^\circ$. ^thm-balanced-maximum-sofa-ineq

_Proof._ By mirror symmetry ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^rem-mirror-symmetry]]), it suffices to show $\sigma_K(\pi/2) \geq w_K^\circ$. Take the maximum polygon caps $K_n$ converging to $K$. As $K_n \to K$ in Hausdorff distance, $w_{K_n} ^{\circ} \to w_K^{\circ}$ by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^lem-wedge-gap-limit]]. Because $\sigma_{K_n} \to \sigma_K$ in weak convergence, we have $\limsup_{ n } \sigma_{K_n}(\pi/2) \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$. This combined with $w_{K_n}^{\circ} \leq \sigma_{K_n}(\pi/2)$ ([[#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa-ineq]]) prove $w_K^\circ \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$ as we want. □