Consider a movement of a sofa $S$ inside the fixed hallway $L$. By looking at the movement in the rotating frame of the moving sofa, the sofa becomes stationary and the hallway moves. In this way, we can change the problem to a moving _hallway_ problem. 

Let the moving sofa $S$ at time $t$ be positioned at $S_t = f_t(S)$ inside $L$, where $f_t$ is a rigid transformation with time $t$ from $t=0$ to $t=T$. Assume that $S$ has a rotation angle $\omega$. We can also assume without loss of generality that $S_0 = S$, or that the sofa is positioned where it starts the movement. Then the sofa $S$ is a subset of rotating hallway $L_t = f_t^{-1}(S)$ for any time $t \in [0, T]$. Also, the sofa $S$ is inside two strips: the initial $S_0 = S$ is inside $H$, and the final $S_T$ is inside $V$ so $S \subseteq f^{-1}_T(V)$. The set $f_T^{-1}(V)$ is the vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $\omega$. So by applying some translation, we can assume that the sofa $S$ is inside the parallelogram $P_\omega = H \cap R_{\omega}(V)$ without loss of generality. This observation has been used as the first step in many existing works including Romik-Kallus's upper bound of $2.37$.

In this section, we impose further restrictions on how the hallways intersect without compromising the area of the sofa. First, by translating $S$ we can assume that $S$ lies inside the parallelogram $P_\omega$ touching its outer sides (Figure 1-a). Second, we can push the rotating hallway towards the sofa, so that every hallway $L_S(t)$ touches the sofa on its outer wall. We will prove that the resulting intersection $\mathcal{M}(S)$ is still connected and thus a sofa. We call the new sofa $\mathcal{M}(S)$ that contains $S$ as the _monotonization_ of $S$, and call any sofa which is a monotonization as a _monotone sofa_.

The shape of a monotone sofa $S$ consists of two parts:

- The _cap_ $\mathcal{C}(S)$ which is a convex set of intersection of $P_\omega$ and the half-planes coming from the outer walls of the rotating hallway $L_S(t)$. 
- The _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(S)$ which is the area swept by the inner corner of the rotating hallway $L_S(t)$.

We always have $\mathcal{N}(S) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ and $S = \mathcal{C}(S) \setminus \mathcal{N}(S)$ for monotone sofas. Indeed, sofas of sufficiently large area such as Hammersley's sofa or Gerver's sofa resembles the shape of a thick arch or a telephone handset. This makes the analysis of maximum sofas simpler, as we can separate our concern of area into that of $\mathcal{C}(S)$ and $\mathcal{N}(S)$ separately. The rest of the chapter is devoted to formally carrying out the details of this.