We observed that a sofa is essentially the intersection of rotating sofas in the introduction. Let us now examine this idea in full details.

Let $S$ be a sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and the movement described by the rigid transformation $f_t$ with time $t \in [a, b]$. So the sofa $S$ in movement at time $t$ is positioned at $S_t = f_t(S)$. Without loss of generality, we can assume that the sofa $S = S_a$ is equal to its initial position of the movement. So $f_a$ is the identity map on $\mathbb{R}^2$.

In perspective of the sofa, $S$ is always contained in the rotating hallway $L_t = f_t^{-1}(S)$ for any time $t \in [a, b]$. Now note that the initial hallway $L_a$ is a translation of $L$ and the final $L_b$ is a translation of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\omega$. By the intermediate value theorem on the roation angle of $L_t$ for $a \leq t \leq b$, a sofa $S$ is always contained in some hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\theta$ for any $\theta \in [0, \omega]$.

What we have omitted in this observation up to now is that the sofa $S$ is also contained in two strips of width 1. The initial sofa $S = S_a$ should be in $H$. The final sofa $S_b = f_b(S)$ should be in $H$, so $S$ is also contained in $f_b^{-1}(H)$ which is the vertical strip rotated counterclockwise by $\omega$. Thus, a sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ is contained in hallways rotated by any angle in $[0, \omega]$, and translations of strips $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$ (refer to [[00. Sofa#^def-rigid-motion]] for the definition of $R_\omega$). This is the exact formalization of the idea that a sofa is the intersection of rotating hallways.

We will generalize this concept of intersection of rotating hallways to an arbitrary set $\Theta$ of angles.

> __Definition [hallway-intersection].__ A shape $S$ is a _hallway intersection_ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and _angle set_ $\Theta \subseteq \left[ 0, \omega \right]$ if the followings hold.
> ^def-hallway-intersection
> 
> - $S$ is connected.
> - $\Theta$ is a closed set such that $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$.
> - For every $\theta \in \Theta$, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_\theta(L)$, the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\theta$.
> - $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$.

By the discussion above, any sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \omega]$ can be translated and rotated to a hallway intersection with the angle set $[0, \omega]$. We introduce this generalization because we later will approximate $S$ by a polygonal hallway intersection with a finite angle set.

Any hallway intersection $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ is in translations of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$. By translating $S$, we can assume that this intersection $P$ is the parallelogram $P_\omega$ defined as the following.

> __Definition [parallelogram].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _parallelogram_ $P_\omega = H \cap R_\omega(V)$ as the intersection of the horizontal strip $H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]$, and the vertical strip $V = [0, 1] \times \mathbb{R}$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\omega$ centered at the origin. For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$ let $p_{\omega} = l(\omega, 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ be the upper-right corner of the parallelogram. ^def-parallelogram

Note that $P_\omega$ is a proper parallelogram if $\omega < \pi/2$, and the horizontal strip $H$ if $\omega = \pi/2$. Let us push $S$ towards the upper edges $l(\omega, 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ inside $P_\omega$. This puts $S$ in _standard position_ defined as the following.

> __Definition [standard-position].__ Say that a shape $S$ is in _standard position_ with respect to the _rotation angle_ $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ if the followings hold. ^def-standard-position
> 
> - $S$ is contained in the parallelogram $P_{\omega}$.
> - $p_{S}(\omega)=p_S(\pi/2)=1$. In other words, $S$ touches the sides $l(\omega, 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ of the parallelogram $P_\omega$.

> __Corollary [sofa-is-hallway-intersection].__ Let $S$ be any sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Then there is a rigid transformation $f$ such that $f(S)$ is a hallway intersection in standard position with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $[0, \omega]$. ^cor-sofa-is-hallway-intercsection

_Proof._ From the discussion above. □

From now on, assume an arbitrary hallway intersection $S$ in standard position with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$ (it helps to imagine $S$ as just a sofa in standard position, and that $\Theta = [0, \omega]$). 

For any angle $t \in \Theta$, the set $S$ is contained in some hallway $L_t$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$. We restrict the position of $L_t$ by pushing the outer walls of $L_t$ towards $S$ as much as we can. The result is a _tangent hallway_ $L_S(t)$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$ that still contains $S$ and touches $S$ in its two outer sides. Note that $L_S(t)$ can be defined for any shape $S$ that may not be a hallway intersection.

> __Definition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, define the rigid transformation $g_S(t)$ as the map $g_S (t) = R_t \circ T_{\left( p_S(t) - 1, p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1 \right)}$. Define the _tangent hallway_ of $S$ with angle $t$ as the hallway $L_S(t) = [g_S(t)](L)$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$. ^def-tangent-hallway

The map $g_S$ is constructed so that it sends the standard hallway $L$ with $p_L(0) = p_L(\pi/2) = 1$ to the hallway $L' = L_S(t)$ with $p_{L'}(t) = p_{S}(t)$ and $p_{L'}(t + \pi/2) = p_{S}(t + \pi/2)$. That is, $L_S(t)$ always touches $S$ in its outer walls.

Let us give names to the sides and corners of $L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [hallway-parts].__ Let $a, b, c, d$ be the sides of $L$ described by the equations $x=1$, $x=0$, $y=1$, $y=0$ respectively. So $a$ and $c$ are outer sides of $L$, and $b$ and $d$ are inner sides of $L$. Let $\mathbf{x} = (0, 0)$ and $\mathbf{y} = (1, 1)$ be the inner and outer corner of $L$ respectively. Let $Q^+ = (-\infty, 1]^2$ be the closed quarter-plane bounded by $a$ and $c$. Let $Q^- = (-\infty, 0)^2$ be the open quarter-plane bounded by $b$ and $d$, so that $L = Q^+ \setminus Q^-$. ^def-hallway-parts
> 
> For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let $a_S(t), b_S(t), c_S(t), d_S(t), \mathbf{x}_S(t), \mathbf{y}_S(t)$ be the parts of $L_S(t)$ corresponding to the parts $a, b, c, d, \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$ respectively. For example, $b_S(t) = f_S(b)$.

We can then characterize the tangent hallway by its geometric property.

> __Corollary [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, $L_S(t)$ is the unique rigid transformation of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$, touching $S$ in the outer walls $a_S(t)$ and $c_S(t)$. Consequently, we have $Q^+_S(t) = H_S(t) \cap H_S(t+\pi/2)$. ^cor-tangent-hallway

We include a rigorous proof that for hallway intersection $S$, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ always contains $S$.

> __Lemma [tangent-hallway-equivariant].__ Let $h$ be an arbitrary rigid transformation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ with rotation angle $t_h \in S^1$. Let $S$ be an arbitrary shape. Let $t' \in S^1$ be an arbitrary angle. Then we have $h(L_S(t)) = L_{h(S)}(t + t_g)$. ^lem-tangent-hallway-equivariant

_Proof._ By [[#^cor-tangent-hallway]], $L' = L_S(t)$ is the hallway $L$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$ and touches $S$ in the outer walls. Sending $S$ and $L'$ through the map $h$, $h(L')$ is the hallway rotated counterclockwise by $t + t_h$ that touches $h(S)$ in the outer walls. So by [[#^cor-tangent-hallway]] again, $h(L') = L_{h(S)}(t + t_h)$. □

> __Theorem [in-tangent-hallway].__ Let $S$ be an arbitrary shape contained in some hallway $L'$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t \in S^1$. Then the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ of $S$ contains $S$ as well. ^thm-in-tangent-hallway

_Proof._ First we show that it suffices to assume the case $L' = L$ and $t=0$. Assuming this, let $f$ be the rigid transformation that sends $L'$ to $L$. Now $f(S)$ is in $L$ so by assumption $f(S) \subseteq L_{f(S)}(0)$. By [[#^lem-tangent-hallway-equivariant]] we have $L_{f(S)}(0) = f(L_S(t))$ so $S \subseteq L_S(t)$ as we wanted to show.

Now assume that $S \subseteq L' = L$. Our goal is to show that $L_S(0)$ also contains $S$. As $S \subseteq L$ we have $p_S(0) \leq 1$ and $p_S(\pi/2) \leq 1$. Let $(x_0, y_0)$ be the coordinate of $\mathbf{x}(0)$, then by [[01. Moving Hallway Problem#^def-tangent-hallway]] we have $x_0, y_0 \leq 0$. So $Q^-_S(0)$ is a subset of $(-\infty, 0)^2$ and disjoint from $S$. By [[#^cor-tangent-hallway]] $Q_S^+(0)$ contains $S$. Now $S \subseteq L = Q^+_S(0)\setminus Q^-_S(0)$, proving the goal. □

> __Remark [in-tangent-hallway].__ [[#^thm-in-tangent-hallway]] depends crucially on the fact that the set $Q^-$ is closed in the direction of $-u_t$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/2]$. Otherwise, even if a hallway $L$ contains $S$ the pushed hallway $L_S(0)$ may not contain $S$. ^rem-in-tangent-hallway

%% TODO: add a figure to explain this. %%

Finally, we observe that any hallway intersection $S$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$ is actually a sofa. That is, it has the continuous movement $f_S(t) = [g_S(t)]^{-1}$.

> __Theorem [hallway-intersection-is-sofa].__ Any hallway intersection $S$ with angle set $[0, \omega]$ for some $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ is a sofa with rotation angle $\omega$ and the movement $f_S(t) = [g_S(t)]^{-1}$ where $t \in [0, \omega]$. ^thm-hallway-intersection-is-sofa

_Proof._ As $S$ is a hallway intersection, $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$. By translating $S$, we can assume that $S$ is in standard position without loss of generality. We check that the map $f_S(t) = [g_S(t)]^{-1}$ sending $L_S(t)$ to $L$ is a sofa movement of $S$ as the following.

- By the definition of $g_S (t) = R_t \circ T_{\left( p_S(t) - 1, p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1 \right)}$ and continuity of $p_S$, $f_S(t)$ is also continuous respect to $t$.
- By [[01. Moving Hallway Problem#^thm-in-tangent-hallway]], $L_S(t)$ always contains $S$. So $[f_S(t)](S) \subseteq L$ for every $t \in [0, \omega]$.
- As $S$ is in standard position, $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$ and so by [[#^cor-tangent-hallway]]  $l(\omega, 1)$ is the wall $a_S(\omega)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ is the wall $c_S(0)$. This implies that $L_S(0)$ is a horizontal translation of $L$ and $L_S(\omega)$ is a translation of $R_\omega(L)$ in the direction $v_\omega$. So the transformation $g_S(0)$ fixes $H$ and $g_S(\omega)$ maps $V$ to $R_\omega(L)$. As $S$ is in standard position, $S \subseteq H = [g_S(0)](H)$ and $S \subseteq R_\omega(L) = [g_S(\omega)](V)$. That is, $[f_S(0)](S) \subseteq H$ and $[f_S(\omega)](S) \subseteq V$ so the movement $f_S(t)$ satisfies the boundary condition.

□

> __Corollary [sofa-iff-hallway-intersection].__ Let $S$ be any shape in standard position with rotation angle $\omega$. Then $S$ is a sofa with rotation angle $\omega$ if and only if $S$ is a hallway intersection with angle set $\Theta = [0, \omega]$. ^cor-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection