We have shown that any maximum sofa $S$ rotating by an angle of $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ can be assumed to be monotone with cap $K$ and angle set $[0, \omega]$ ([[02. Monotone Sofas#^cor-monotonization-contains]] and [[02. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-is-hallway-intersection]]). That is, $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ ([[02. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-eq]]). From now on, we will understand a maximum sofa $S$ by its cap $K$. We define the space of caps.

> __Definition [cap-space].__ For any angle set $\Theta$, let $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be the set of all caps $K$ with angle set $\Theta$. For any rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, let $\mathcal{K}_\omega = \mathcal{K}_{[0, \omega]}$. ^def-cap-space

> __Theorem [area-functional].__ Let $\Theta$ be any angle set. Define the _area functional_ $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\Theta \to \mathbb{R}$ on $K_\Theta$ as $\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. ^thm-area-functional

This corollary comes from [[02. Monotone Sofas#^thm-niche-in-cap]].

> __Corollary [area-functional].__ If $S$ is any hallway intersection with angle set $\Theta$, and $K$ is the cap of $S$, then the area of the monotonization of $S$ is $\mathcal{A}(K)$. ^cor-area-functional

In this way, we maximize the area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ to find the maximum sofa that rotates counterclockwise by an angle of $\omega$. Note however that not all cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ gives rise to a hallway intersection $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, as $K$ might be too wide making $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ disconnected. Indeed, [[02. Monotone Sofas#^thm-monotonization-connected-iff]] specifies exactly when $K$ gives rise to a sofa.

The space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ is a convex space, making the optimization of $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ easier. Here, a convex space is a set $X$ equipped with barycentric operator $c_\lambda : X \times X \to X$ for all $\lambda \in [0, 1]$ satisfying the identities of convex-linear combinations.

> __Theorem [cap-mixin].__ For any caps $K_1$ and $K_2$ with same angle set $\Theta$, and any $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the convex combination $c_\lambda(K_1, K_2) = (1-\lambda)K_1 + \lambda K_2$ is also a cap with angle set $\Theta$. That is, the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is a convex space. ^thm-cap-mixin

Note that the vertices $A^+_K, A^-_K, C^+_K, C^-_K$ of cap and the corners $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{y}_K$ of the tangent hallway $L_K(t)$ are convex-linear with respect to $K$ by [[02. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]]. Let us define what is a quadratic functional on a convex space.

> __Definition [quadratic-functional].__ A function $f : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ is a _quadratic functional_ on a convex space $\mathcal{K}$ if, for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$ and $K = c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the value $f(K)$ is a quadratic polynomial with respect to $\lambda$. ^def-quadratic-functional

We strongly expect that the original area functional $\mathcal{A}$ is not a quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. But we will construct quadratic functional upper bounds of $\mathcal{A}$ that are much easier to control. We omit the proof of the following observation.

> __Lemma [quadratic-functional].__ If $\mathcal{K}$ is a convex space and $V$, $W$ are vector spaces, and $f : \mathcal{K} \to V$ and $g : \mathcal{K} \to W$ are convex-linear maps and $* : V \times W \to \mathbb{R}$ is a bilinear form, then $f(K) * g(K)$ is a quadratic functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}$. ^lem-quadratic-functional

Also, we define which quadratic functional is positive/negative semidefinite. 

> __Definition [positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional].__ Let $\mathcal{K}$ be any convex space. A quadratic functional $f : \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ is _positive semidefinite_ (resp. _negative semidefinite_) if, for any $K_1, K_2 \in \mathcal{K}$ and $K = c_\lambda(K_1, K_2)$ for arbitrary $\lambda \in [0, 1]$, the quadratic polynomial $f(K)$ of $\lambda$ has nonnegative (resp. nonpositive) quadratic coefficient. ^def-positive-semidefinite-quadratic-functional

We omit the proof of the following observations.

> __Lemma [negative-semidefinite].__ The followings are true. ^lem-negative-semidefinite
> 
> - If $f : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to V$ is a convex-linear map to an inner product space $V$, then the map $v \mapsto - \langle f(v), f(v) \rangle_V$ is a negative semidefinite quadratic functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.
> - Adding a negative semidefinite functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ with another convex-linear functional or negative semidefinite functional on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ always gives a negative semidefinite functional.

So the space of monotone sofas can be understood as a subset of the space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ of caps. With this, maximizing $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ technically may not lead to a valid $K$ which gives a sofa $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$.




> __Definition [cap-support].__ For any angle set $\Theta$,  ^def-cap-support

We give the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ more structures. We can identify each $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with the support function 

> __Definition [cap-space-restriction].__ Let $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ and $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta_1 \subseteq \Theta_2 \subseteq [0, \omega]$ be two angle sets. Define the map $\iota_{\Theta_2, \Theta_1} : \mathcal{K}_{\Theta_2} \to \mathcal{K}_{\Theta_1}$ as the mapping from $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\Theta_2}$ to $P_\omega \bigcap \cap_{t \in \Theta_1} Q^+_{K}(t)$. ^def-cap-space-restriction

From now on, we will define and prove the geometric properties of caps in $K_\Theta$. Note that we have defined [[02. Monotone Sofas#^def-cap-vertices|vertices]] and [[02. Monotone Sofas#^def-cap-lines|walls of the rotating hallway]] for any cap $K$ previously.

Next, we relate any cap in $K_\Theta$ to its boundary measure. This correspondence is bijective.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-cap].__ The boundary measure $\beta_K$ of $K$ on $S^1$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ and satisfies the followings. ^thm-boundary-measure-cap
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$

_Proof._ $\beta_K$ has support in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ by [[02. Monotone Sofas#^def-cap]] and [[02. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure-support]]. We have $\left( A^+_K(\omega) - A^-_K(0) \right) \cdot v_0 = 1$ for any cap $K$. Applying [[02. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]] to this formula, we obtain the first equation. The second equation can be obtained by a symmetric argument. □

> __Theorem [cap-from-boundary-measure].__ Conversely to [[#^thm-boundary-measure-cap]], let $\beta$ be a measure on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$ that satisfies the following equation. ^thm-cap-from-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{t \in \Theta} \cos(t) \, \beta_K(dt) = 1 \qquad \int_{t \in \Theta + \pi/2} \cos\left( \omega + \pi/2 - t \right)  \, \beta_K(dt) = 1
$$
> Then the followings hold.
> 
> - If $\omega = \pi/2$, then there is a cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$. This is unique up to horizontal translation: all the other caps $K'$ satisfying the same condition is a horizontal translation of $K$.
> - If $\omega < \pi/2$, then there is a unique cap $K$ with rotation angle $\omega$ and angle set $\Theta$ such that $\beta_K|_{\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} = \beta$.

_Proof._ TODO. □

We define the _arm lengths_ of a cap $K$.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ For any $t \in \Theta$, let $g_K^+(t)$ be the real value such that $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^+_K(t) + g_K^+(t) v_t$. Let $g_K^-(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = A^-_K(t) + g_K^-(t) v_t$. Let $h_K^+(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^+_K(t) + h_K^+(t) u_t$. Let $h_K^-(t)$ be the value such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = C^-_K(t) + h_K^-(t) u_t$. ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length

It turns out that when $\Theta = [0, \omega]$, the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ on $\Theta$ is both left and right differentiable. Also, the differentiation can be expressed in terms of the arm lengths of $K$.

> __Definition [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, $\mathbf{v}_K^+ (t)$ is the right derivative of $\mathbf{x}$ at $t$ and $\mathbf{v}_K^- (t)$ is the left derivative of $\mathbf{x}$ at $t$. ^def-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\mathbf{v}_K^{-} (t_0) = \lim_{t \rightarrow t_0^-} \frac{\mathbf{x}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t_0)}{t - t_0} \qquad
\mathbf{v}_K^{+} (t_0) = \lim_{t \rightarrow t_0^+} \frac{\mathbf{x}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t_0)}{t - t_0}.
$$

> __Theorem [inner-corner-deriv].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, $\mathbf{v}_K^+ (t)$ exists for any $0 \leq t < \omega$ and is equal to the following. ^thm-inner-corner-deriv
$$
\begin{align*}
	\mathbf{v}_K^+(t) = -(g_K^+(t) - 1) \cdot u_t + (h_K^+(t) - 1) \cdot v_t
\end{align*}
$$
> Likewise, $\mathbf{v}_K^- (t)$ exists for all $0 < t \leq \omega$ and is equal to the following.
$$
\begin{equation*}
	\mathbf{v}_K^-(t) = -(g_K^-(t) - 1) \cdot u_t + (h_K^-(t) - 1) \cdot v_t
\end{equation*}
$$

_Proof._ Fix an arbitrary cap $K$ and omit the subscript $K$. Take any $0 \leq t < \pi / 2$ and set $s = t + \delta$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\delta > 0$. We simplify $\mathbf{v}^+(t) = \lim_{\delta \rightarrow 0^+}(\mathbf{x}(s) - \mathbf{x}(t)) / \delta$.

Define $A_{t, s} = a(t) \cap a(s)$. Since $A_{t, s}$ is on the lines $a(t)$ and $a(s)$, it satisfies both 
$$
A_{t, s} \cdot u_t = \mathbf{x}(t) \cdot u_t + 1
$$ and
$$
A_{t, s} \cdot u_s = \mathbf{x}(s) \cdot u_s + 1.
$$

Rewrite $u_s = \cos \delta \cdot u_t + \sin \delta \cdot v_t$ on the second equation and we have
$$
\begin{align*}
	A_{t, s} \cos \delta \cdot u_t + A_{t, s} \sin \delta \cdot v_t =  	\cos \delta (\mathbf{x}(s) \cdot u_t) + \sin \delta (\mathbf{x}(s) \cdot v_t) + 1.
\end{align*}
$$
Group by $\cos \delta$ and $\sin \delta$ and substitute $A_{t, s} \cdot u_t$ with first equation then
$$ \cos \delta (\mathbf{x}(s) \cdot u_t - \mathbf{x}(t) \cdot u_t) + (1 - \cos \delta)
	= \sin \delta (A_{t, s}  (s) \cdot v_t - \mathbf{x}(s) \cdot v_t) .
	$$
Divide by $\delta$ and send $\delta \to 0^+$. Observe that $A_{t, s} \to A^+(t)$. We get
$$ \mathbf{v}^+(t) \cdot u_t  = (A^+(t) - \mathbf{x}(t)) \cdot v_t$$
Note that $g^+(t) = (\mathbf{y}(t) - A^+(t)) \cdot v_t = (\mathbf{x}(t) - A^+(t))\cdot v_t + 1$ so we have 
$$ \mathbf{v}^+(t) \cdot u_t = 1 - g ^+(t).$$
A similar argument can be applied to show $\mathbf{v}^+(t) \cdot v_t = h^+(t) - 1$ and thus the first equation of the theorem.  A symmetric argument shows the second equation of the theorem. □

> __Corollary [inner-corner-deriv-exists-almost-everywhere].__ For any cap $K$, $\mathbf{v}_K^+ (t) = \mathbf{v}_K^-(t)$ for all $0 < t < \pi / 2$ except for a countable number of values of $t$. Denote by $\mathbf{v}_K(t)$ the almost-everywhere defined derivative of $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$. Consequently, $\mathbf{x}_K$ is continuous and differentiable almost everywhere, and so $\mathbf{x}_K$ is absolutely continuous with $d \mathbf{x}_K = \mathbf{v}_K$. ^cor-inner-corner-deriv-exists-almost-everywhere

_Proof._ The boundary measure $\beta_K$ is a locally finite measure, so there are at most countable values of $t \in S^1$ where $\beta_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right)$ is not zero. By [[02. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure]], we have $v^+_K(t) = v^-_K(t)$ whenever $\beta_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = 0$. So for such values, we have $g^+_K(t) = g^-_K(t)$ and $h^+_K(t) = h^-_K(t)$ by [[#^def-cap-tangent-arm-length]]. Using the formula in [[#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]], we obtain $\mathbf{v}_K^+ (t) = \mathbf{v}_K^-(t)$ for such $t$. □



%%
We also give the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ a metric. We can identify a cap with its support function.

> __Definition [cap-support-function].__ For any cap $K$ with angle set $\Theta$, define $p_K^0$ as the support function $p_K$ restricted to the domain $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$. ^def-cap-support-function

> __Theorem [cap-support-function].__ The map $K \mapsto p_K^0$ from $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ to the space of continuous functions $\mathcal{C}^0(\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2))$ is injective. ^thm-cap-support-function

_Proof._ Any cap $K$ is supported by the set $\Pi = \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$, so the support function $p_K$ on $\Pi$ determines $K$. Note that $p_K$ has value zero on $\{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$ by the defintion of a cap. □

> __Definition [cap-space-metric].__ Identifying $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ as a subset of $\mathcal{C}^0(\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2))$ under the map $K \mapsto p_K^0$, give $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ the uniform norm. ^def-cap-space-metric

> __Corollary [cap-space-metric].__ The uniform metric of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is equivalent to the Hausdorff norm of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. ^cor-cap-space-metric

%%