We will use the following results on a convex body of $\mathbb{R}^2$ as basic tools to approach the sofa problem. The proof of these results are irrelevant to the main discussion on sofas, so we delegate their proofs in an appendix. We recomend the reader to first jump directly to the proof and consult this page when needed, and consult the proofs when doubts arise in the stated results.

> __Definition [curve].__ (Definition 8.16) Let $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be a continuous function with $a < b$. A _curve_ $\Gamma$ _parametrized by_ $\alpha$ is the image $\Gamma$ of $\alpha$ equipped with the particular _parametrization_ $\alpha$, and we say that the curve $\Gamma$ _joins_ the points $\alpha(a)$ and $\alpha(b)$.
> If $\alpha(a)=\alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _closed curve_. If $\alpha(a) \neq \alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is an _arc_. If $\alpha$ is one-to-one then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _Jordan arc_. If $\alpha$ is one-to-one on $[a, b)$ and $\alpha(a) = \alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _Jordan curve_. ^def-curve-

> __Definition [convex-body].__ A _convex body_ $K$ is a nonempty compact subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ which is an intersection of [[02. Geometric Primitives#^def-half-plane|half-planes]]. ^def-convex-body-

> __Definition [convex-body-edge].__ For any convex body $K$ and $t \in S^1$, let the _edge_ $e_K(t)$ be the line segment intersection of $K$ with the tangent line $l_K(t)$. Let $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_K^-(t)$ be the endpoints of the line segment $e_K(t)$, such that $v_K^+(t)$ is positioned largest in the direction of $v_t$ and $v_K^-(t)$ is positioned smallest in the direction of $v_t$. ^def-convex-body-edge-

> __Theorem [boundary-parametrization].__ For any convex body $K$ with nonempty interior, the topological boundary $\partial K$ is the union $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$ of all the edges of $K$ and ^thm-boundary-parametrization

> __Definition [boundary-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, there is a uniquely associated measure $\beta_K$ on $S^1$ such that it satisfies the following properties. ^def-boundary-measure-
> 
> - It satisfies the _vertex formulas_: For any $a < b$, 
$$
\int_{(a, b]} u_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) 
$$
$$
\int_{[a, b]} u_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^-(b) - v_K^+(a) 
$$
> - It satisfies the _area formula_: The area of $K$ is the following.
$$
\left| K \right| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{S^1}p_K(t)\,\beta(dt)
$$



> __Theorem [mamikon].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $p, q \in \partial K$ be two different points on the boundary of $K$. Let $t_p, t_q \in \mathbb{R}$ be the angles such that $p \in e_K(t_p)$ and $q \in e_K(t_q)$ and $t_p < t_q \leq t_p + 2 \pi$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [t_p, t_q] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be some parametrization of a rectifiable curve with a measurable function $f : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t)v_t$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_1]$. Then the following holds. ^thm-mamikon
$$
I(\mathbf{y}) + I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, t_0, t_1}) + I\left( v_K^+(t_0), \mathbf{y}(t_0) \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{a}^{b} f(t) ^2 \, dt
$$
