This appendix contains all the geometry required to execute the sofa proof. We use the following as the main reference. Note that it is the first (not second) edition that we depend on.

> Main Reference: 
> 	Apostol, Tom (1960). _Mathematical Analysis_ (1 ed.). Reading, Massachusetts, U.S.A.: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, INC.

# Definition

> __Definition [curve].__ (Definition 8.16) Let $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be a continuous function. The _curve $\Gamma$ described by $\alpha$_ is the image $\Gamma$ of $\alpha$ equipped with a particular _parametrization_ $\alpha$, and we say that the curve $\Gamma$ joins the points $\alpha(a)$ and $\alpha(b)$.
> If $\alpha(a)=\alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _closed curve_. If $\alpha(a) \neq \alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is an _arc_. If $\alpha$ is one-to-one then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _Jordan arc_. If $\alpha$ is one-to-one on $[a, b)$ and $\alpha(a) = \alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _Jordan curve_. ^def-curve

Note that here a curve is not only a subset $\Gamma$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ but a datum also equipped with parametrization $\alpha$. So the image $\Gamma$ being same does not imply that the curves are the same.

The following defines the equivalence of two curves. The image $\Gamma$ should be the same. Moreover, the following relation should hold.

> __Definition [equivalence-parametrization].__ (Definition 8.17) Let $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and $\beta : [c, d] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be two continuous functions. 
> Then $\beta$ is _properly equivalent_ to $\alpha$ if there is a strictly increasing continuous function $h : [c, d] \to [a, b]$ such that $h(c) = a$, $h(d) = b$ and $\beta = \alpha \circ h$.
> $\beta$ is _improperly equivalent_ to $\alpha$ if there is a strictly decreasing continuous function $h : [c, d] \to [a, b]$ such that $h(c) = b$, $h(d) = a$ and $\beta = \alpha \circ h$. 
> $\beta$ is _equivalent_ to $\alpha$ if any of the two above holds. ^def-equivalence-parametrization

This theorem says that for Jordan arc we can identify the arc with its image $\Gamma$.

> __Theorem [jordan-arc-unique-parametrization].__ (Theorem 8.18) Any two functions $\alpha, \beta$ parametrizing the same Jordan arc $\Gamma$ is equivalent. ^thm-jordan-arc-unique-parametrization

# Area Functional

We don't cite the definition of a rectifiable curve in the reference, but this theorem effectively gives a condition.

> __Theorem [rectifiable-iff-bounded-variation].__ (Theorem 8.25) A curve described by a continuous function $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t)) \in \mathbb{R}^2$ defined on $t \in [a, b]$ is _rectifiable_ if and only if each $x(t)$ and $y(t)$ are of bounded variation. ^thm-rectifiable-iff-bounded-variation

With [[01. Measure Theory#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes-measure]], for rectifiable $\mathbf{x}(t)$ the notation $d\mathbf{x}(t)$ is a valid pair of measures on $[a, b]$ and it is possible to do line integral over $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [cross].__ For any vectors $(a, b)$ and $(c, d)$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$, define their cross product as the following. ^def-cross
$$
(a, b) \times (c, d) = a d - b c
$$
> Here note that the cross product is a scalar.

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ For any rectifiable curve $\Gamma$ equipped with a parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, define the _area functional_ $I(\mathbf{x})$ on $\Gamma[\mathbf{x}]$ as the following. ^def-curve-area-functional
$$
I(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t)
$$
> Note that $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is [[#^thm-rectifiable-iff-bounded-variation|of bounded variation]] and also continuous, so the integral is well-defined.

> __Theorem [curve-area-additive].__ If two curves $\Gamma_1$ and $\Gamma_2$ parametrized by $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and $\beta : [b, c] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ are rectifiable and $\alpha(b) = \beta(b)$, then the join $\gamma : [a, c] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ defined as $\gamma(t) = \alpha(t)$ for $t \leq b$ and $\gamma(t) = \beta(t)$ for $t \geq b$ parametrizes the union $\Gamma = \Gamma_1 \cup \Gamma_2$ and we have the following. ^thm-curve-area-additive
$$
I(\gamma) = I(\alpha) + I(\beta)
$$

We introduce some rudimentary notions for area functionals on line segments.

> __Definition [segment-area-functional].__ For any two points $p = (a, b), q = (c, d) \in \mathbb{R}^2$, define the following. ^def-segment-area-functional
$$
I(p, q) = \frac{1}{2} p \times q = \frac{1}{2} (a d - b c)
$$
> Note that $I(p, q)$ is $I(\mathbf{x})$ where $\mathbf{x} : [0, 1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is the parametrization $\mathbf{x}(\lambda) = (1 - \lambda)p + \lambda q$ of the line segment from $p$ to $q$.

This is a calculus-of-variation calculation on the curve functionals.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ be two rectifiable curves. Let $\mathbf{x} = (1 - \lambda) \mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2$ be an interpolation from $\mathbf{x}_1$ to $\mathbf{x}_2$ where $\lambda \in [0, 1]$. Then the following holds. ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} I(\mathbf{x}) = I(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - I(\mathbf{x}_1(a), \mathbf{x}_1(a))
+ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t)) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)
$$

_Proof._ Direct calculation gives
$$
\begin{align*}
I(\mathbf{x}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) 
= \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_1(t) + \lambda (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))) \times (d\mathbf{x}_1(t) + \lambda d(\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))) \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \lambda \left( \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 + \mathbf{x}_1 \times d(\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \right) + \dots
\end{align*}
$$
where only the linear term of $\lambda$ is displayed in the last expression. So in particular we have the following derivative.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} I(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b  (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 + \mathbf{x}_1 \times d(\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1)
$$

Do [[01. Measure Theory#^thm-integration-by-parts|integration by parts]] on one integral.
$$
\begin{align*}
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1 \times d(\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) & = 
 \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times (\mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(b)) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times (\mathbf{x}_2(a) - \mathbf{x}_1(a)) + \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 \\
 & = \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a) + \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1
\end{align*}
$$
Substituting this back, we get 
$$
\begin{align*}
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} I(\mathbf{x}) & = \frac{\mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a)}{2} 
 + \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1
\end{align*}
$$
that matches the claimed equation. □

# Area Enclosed by a Jordan Curve

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ Any Jordan curve $J$ divides the complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus J$ into two connected components: an unbounded region $\mathcal{U}(J)$, and a bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$. Their boundaries are both $J$. ^thm-jordan-curve

TODO: Add a definition of what is a _positively oriented Jordan curve_.

> __Theorem [green].__ If $J$ is a Jordan curve with a positively oriented, rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, then the area of the bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$ can be computed as the following. ^thm-green
$$
\left| \mathcal{B}(J) \right| = I(\mathbf{x})
$$

# Future Plans on Using Jordan Curve

This is an informal note on how we are going to apply all this to construct the upper bounds $\mathcal{A}_1$ and $\mathcal{A}_2$ of our sofa. Our strategy is to construct a Jordan curve $J$ that traps the sofa $S$ inside the bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$. This Jordan curve $J$ is constructed by patching a bunch of curves (segments of boundary of convex bodies, line segments, etc.). Using [[#^thm-green]] we can bound the area of $S$ with $I(J)$, and using [[#^thm-curve-area-additive]] we can break $I(J)$ down into smaller pieces, each with the formula given by [[#^def-curve-area-functional]].

Strategy on how to trap $S$ inside $J$:
- The upper bondary of the cap in $J$ is on 'top' of the Jordan curve $J$ (no other points sharing the same $x$-coordinate has higher value of $y$-coordinate) and it monotonically moves to the right.
- For any point $p$ of $J$ which is not on the upper boundary, the ray $R_D(p)$ is disjoint from the set $S$.

TODO: make the note above more formal as things get settled.
