# Monotone Sofas

A powerful idea described in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] is that a moving sofa is essentially the intersection of rotating _hallways_, if we look at the movement of $S$ inside $L$ in the perspective of $S$. In this line of idea, there exists a maximum-area moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, so that it is the intersection of the following sets.

1. For every angle $t \in [0, \omega]$, the hallway $L_t$, which is $L$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$ and translated so that the outer walls of $L_t$ is in contact with $S$.
2. The horizontal strip $H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]$.
3. The set $V_\omega$, which is the vertical strip $V = [0, 1] \times \mathbb{R}$ rotated counterclockwise by $\omega$ around the origin.

Such a sofa $S$ satisfying the equation
$$
S = H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_t
$$
is called a _monotone sofa_. So we can restrict our attention to monotone sofas for a maximum-area moving sofa. Moreover, it is shown in [Baek] that such a sofa is equal to a cap $K$ minus the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$.

# Main Idea of [[a. Angle hypothesis/01. Introduction/01. Main Result#^thm-angle]]

Note that $H \cap V_{\omega}$ is a parallelogram of area $\tan(\omega)$. So we can assume that $\omega \geq \arctan(2.2)$.

Assume that there exists a maixmum-area moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega < \pi/2$. We will show that the same sofa also admits another movement of rotation angle $\pi/2$.

> __Theorem [extend-rotation-angle].__  ^thm-extend-rotation-angle

Define $p_\omega$ as the upper-right corner of the parallelogram $P_\omega := H \cap V_\omega$. Define $\Delta_\omega$ as the subset of $P_\omega$ which is under the arc from $p_\omega - u_\omega$ to $p_\omega - v_0$ formed by the circle of radius 1 centered at $p_\omega$. If the small region $\Delta_\omega$ is disjoint from the moving sofa $S$, then it turns out that one can rotate $S$ inside $H$ _counterclockwise_ by an angle of $\pi/2 - \omega$. Combine this movement with the movement of $S$ in $L$ to get a movement of $S$ with rotation angle $\pi/2$.

So how do we show that $\Delta_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$? We will show that there is some $t$ such that the inner corner $Q_K^-(t)$ contains the set $\Delta_\omega$. We will need to bound two values from below. First is the length $p_K(0)$ from the origin. Second is the length of the edge $e_K(\pi/2)$ with the normal vector $(0, 1)$. Now the points $q_1 = (p_K(0), 0)$ and $q_2 = o_\omega - \beta_K(\pi/2)$ are in $K$. The positive quadrant $Q_K^+(t)$ of the hallway $L_t$ should contain the two points $q_1$ and $q_2$. We find a proper value of $t$ so that the negative quadrant $Q_K^-(t)$ contains the set $\Delta_\omega$ all.

Bounding $q_1$, or letting $p_K(0) \geq 1.1$ is sufficient by using symmetry argument. However, bounding the edge length $e_K(\pi/2)$ from below . The rightmost point $q_0$ of $S$ on the line $y=0$. The leftmost point $q_1$ of $S$ on the line $y=1$.