In [[15. Monotone Sofas/00. Introduction|Monotone Sofas]], we observed that any sofa is contained in some monotone sofa $\mathcal{M}(K) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ for some $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$. The main challenge of analyzing the area $|\mathcal{M}(K)| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ is analyzing the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. For example, the niche of Hammersley's sofa consists purely of the arch formed by the inner corner. On the other hand, the niche of Gerver's sofa consists of the inner corner arch with two ends trimmed by the inner walls. Indeed, Gerver had to assume that the niche of a maximum sofa should be formed this way to derive his sofa. If the assumption is true, it would imply that Gerver's sofa attains the maximum area. However, we currently don't have a proof for the assumption.

We propose the _injectivity hypothesis_, a mathematical statement we aim to prove in an upcoming work, to circumvent this assumption and obtain a finer upper bound of the sofa area. The hypothesis states that there is a monotone sofa $S$ that attains the maximum area, such that the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_S(t)$ is injective and always lies inside the parallelogram $P_\omega$.

> __Theorem [injectivity].__ There is a monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K$ and rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ such that $S$ attains the maximum area of a sofa and the followings are true. ^thm-injectivity
> 
> 1. For any $t \in (0, \omega)$, $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is in the interior $F_\omega^\circ$ of the fan always.
> 2. If $\omega = \pi/2$, then $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is strictly on the right side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2)$. That is, $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2) \cdot u_0 < \mathbf{x}_K(0) \cdot u_0$.
> 3. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then both $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega)$ are not $(0, 0)$ and on the boundary of $F_\omega$.
> 4. The curve $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is injective. 

Assuming the injectivity hypothesis, we construct an effective upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ of the monotone sofa $\mathcal{M}(K)$. The idea is that if the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$ is injective, the region bounded by the trajectory of $\mathbf{x}_K$ is guaranteed to be a subset of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. The upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is simply defined as the area of cap $K$ subtracted by the area $I(\mathbf{x}_K)$ of the region bounded by $\mathbf{x}_K$. The value $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ only considers the effect of the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$ in making the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$.

%% 
TODO: add more in-depth explanation of Mamikon's theroem argument. I(x) and I(y) have linear difference only. 

TODO: add area functional definitions and Green's theorem definition here?
%%

For example, the value of $\mathcal{A}_1$ of Hammersley's sofa matches the area of the sofa because the niche is formed purely by the inner corner of the hallway. On the other hand, the value of $\mathcal{A}_1$ of Gerver's sofa is slightly larger than the area of sofa by the trimmed ends of the niche. We will show that $\mathcal{A}_1$ is a concave function of $K$ on $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ and find a maximum $K_1$ of $\mathcal{A}_1$. Then $\mathcal{A}_1(K_1) = 1 + \pi^2/8$ is an upper bound of the area of a sofa.

From now on, we proceed under assuming the injectivity hypothesis, so all the following results will depend on the hypothesis. In an upcoming manuscript, we will prove the injectivity hypothesis using a computer-assisted approach. We developed a software `SofaDesigner` that prove inequalities of $K$ involving a finite set of angles. Using the theorems generated by `SofaDesigner`, we will prove [[#^thm-injectivity]] in our future work.