A _Nef polygon_ is a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that can be obtained by applying a finite number of boolean operations (e.g. complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus X$ of a set $X$, or intersection $X_1 \cap X_2$ of two sets $X_1, X_2$) to open or closed half-planes [@bieriNefPolyhedra1995]. For our purpose, we introduce the notion of _simple Nef polygon_. The polygon cap $K$ and niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa]] will be simple Nef polygons, and we will establish [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-simple-nef-polygon]] and use it later to balance them.

> __Definition [boolean-function].__ Let $\textsf{true}$ and $\textsf{false}$ be the _boolean values_ denoting the truth value of a predicate (e.g., $1+1=2$ is $\textsf{true}$, but $1 + 2 = 4$ is $\textsf{false}$). A _boolean function_ $\mathcal{E}$ is a function from $\left\{ \textsf{true}, \textsf{false} \right\}^n$ to $\left\{ \textsf{true}, \textsf{false} \right\}$ where $n \geq 0$, and we say that $\mathcal{E}$ is _$n$-ary_. ^def-boolean-function

> __Definition [monotone-boolean-function].__ For two boolean values $P$ and $Q$, write $P \leq Q$ if it is not the case that $(P, Q) = (\textsf{true}, \textsf{false})$.[^implies] An $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ is _monotone_ if for any boolean values $P_1, P_2, \dots, P_n, Q_1, Q_2, \dots, Q_n$, with $P_i \leq Q_i$ for all $1 \leq i \leq n$, we have ^def-monotone-boolean-function
$$
\mathcal{E}(P_1, \dots, P_n) \leq \mathcal{E}(Q_1, \dots, Q_n).
$$

> __Proposition [monotone-boolean-function].__ Any $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}(P_1, \dots, P_n)$ is monotone if it is obtained from variables $P_1, \dots, P_n$ by a finite number of logical conjunction $\land$ (AND) and logical disjunction $\lor$ (OR). ^pro-monotone-boolean-function

_Proof._ Check that each $P_i$ is itself monotone as an $n$-ary boolean function on the variables $P_1, \dots, P_n$. Then observe that any logical conjunction or disjunction of monotone functions are monotone. □

> __Definition [nef-polygon].__ For any $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and $n$ closed or open half-planes $H_1, \dots, H_n$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$, define the set 
$$
\mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n) := \left\{ p \in \mathbb{R}^2 : \mathcal{E}(p \in H_1, \dots,p \in H_n) \text{ is } \textsf{true} \right\}.
$$
> Call any such set $X := \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ a _Nef polygon_. ^def-nef-polygon

> __Definition [simple-nef-polygon].__ Call $X$ a _simple Nef polygon_ with _defining half-planes_ $H_1, H_2, \dots, H_n$ if $X = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ for a monotone boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and the half-planes $H_1, \dots, H_n$ have different boundaries $l_1, \dots, l_n$. ^def-simple-nef-polygon

A line $l$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is a Nef polygon since $l$ is the intersection of two closed half-planes $H_l^+$ and $H_l^-$ with boundary $l$. However, $l$ is not simple because the half-planes $H_l^+$ and $H_l^-$ shares the same boundary.

The idea of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^def-simple-nef-polygon]] is that a point $p \in \mathbb{R}^2$ is more likely to be contained in $X$ if $p$ is contained in more defining hyperplanes $H_1, \dots, H_n$. This will be used to establish [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-simple-nef-polygon]].

> __Definition [hausdorff-measure-one].__ Let $\lambda^1$ be the Hausdorff measure of dimension one on $\mathbb{R}^2$. That is, if $X$ is a disjoint union of finite line segments, then $\lambda^1(X)$ is the sum of all lengths of such line segments. ^def-hausdorff-measure-one

> __Theorem [simple-nef-polygon].__ Let $X = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ be a simple Nef polygon defined by a monotone boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and half-planes $H_i = H_-(t_i, h_i)$ or $H_-^{\circ}(t_i, h_i)$ with different boundaries $l_i = l(t_i, h_i)$ for all $1 \leq i \leq n$. Fix an arbitrary index $1 \leq i \leq n$. There exists an absolute constant $\epsilon = \epsilon(X, i) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^thm-simple-nef-polygon
> 
> Let $\delta$ be any real value with $|\delta| \leq \epsilon$. Define
$$
X' = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_{i-1}, H_i', H_{i+1}, \dots, H_n)
$$
> where $H_i' = H(t_i, h_i + \delta)$. Then we have
$$
\left| X' \right| = |X| + \lambda^1(\partial X \cap l_i) \cdot \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$

_Proof._ The lines $l_j$ for all index $j \neq i$ divide the plane into open polygons $R_1, R_2, \dots, R_N$ with $N \leq 2^{n-1}$. Fix an arbitrary region $R_k$. We will show ^eqn-rk
$$
\left| X' \cap R_k \right| = |X \cap R_k| + \lambda^1( \partial X \cap l_i \cap R_k) \cdot \delta + O(\delta^2)
$$
for any $\delta$ with $|\delta| \leq \epsilon_k$ for some $\epsilon_{k} = \epsilon_{k}(P, i, R_k) > 0$. Once [[#^eqn-rk]] is shown, we can take $\epsilon > 0$ to be the minimum of $\epsilon_{k}$ over all $k$ and sum [[#^eqn-rk]] over all $k$ to complete the proof. Note that the boundary of any region $R_k$ and the line $l_i$ intersect in a finite number of points, so adding $\lambda^1( \partial P \cap l_i \cap R_k)$ over all $k$ gives $\lambda^1(\partial P \cap l_i)$.

Take an arbitrary point $p \in R_k$ in an open region $R_k$. Then by the definition of $R_k$, for any index $j \neq i$, the predicate $p \in H_j$ is a constant $\textsf{true}$ or $\textsf{false}$ no matter which $p \in R_k$ we take. Define the restriction
$$
\mathcal{G}(Q) :=  \mathcal{E}(p \in H_1, \dots, p \in H_{i-1}, Q, p \in H_{i+1}, \dots, p \in H_n)
$$
of $\mathcal{E}$ to a single boolean variable $Q$. Observe that the predicate $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i)$ is equivalent to $p \in X$ and the predicate $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i')$ is equivalent to $p \in X'$ (given that $p \in R_k$). Since $\mathcal{E}$ is monotone, $\mathcal{G}$ is also monotone and we have three cases. We omit the case where $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is the negation of $Q$, as $\mathcal{G}$ should be monotone.

Case 1: $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is the constant $\textsf{false}$. In this case, for any $p \in R_k$ the predicates $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i)$ and $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i')$ are $\textsf{false}$ so $R_k$ is disjoint from both $X$ and $X'$. So $R_k$ is also disjoint from $\partial X$ and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^eqn-rk]] holds.

Case 2: $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is the constant $\textsf{true}$. In this case, for any $p \in R_k$ the predicates $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i)$ and $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i')$ are $\textsf{true}$ so $R_k$ is contained in both $X$ and $X'$. So $R_k$ is disjoint from $\partial X$ and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^eqn-rk]] holds.

Case 3: $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $Q$. In this case, for any $p \in R_k$ the predicate $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i)$ (resp. $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_i')$) is equivalent to $p \in H_i$ (resp. $p \in H_i'$). Consequently, we have $X \cap R_k = H_i \cap R_k$ and $X' \cap R_k = H'_i \cap R_k$. In particular, $\partial X \cap R_k = l_i \cap R_k$. Now [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^eqn-rk]] becomes ^eqn-rk-half-plane
$$
\left| H_i' \cap R_k \right| = |H_i \cap R_k| + \lambda^1( l_i \cap R_k) \cdot \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$
Define $g(x) := |H_-(t, x) \cap R_k|$ so that $|H_i' \cap R_k| = g(h_i + \delta)$ and $|H_i \cap R_k| = g(h_i)$. Let $f(x) := \lambda^1(l(t_i, x) \cap R_k)$ then by Cavalieri's principle we have $g(x) = \int_{-\infty}^x f(u)\,du$. Note that $R_k$ is a convex polygon with edges $l_{j}$ with $j \neq i$ different from $l_i = l(t_i, h_i)$. So $f(x)$ is Lipschitz near $x = h_i$. Now by approximating $g(x)$ near $x = h_i$, we get the linear estimate $g(h + \delta) = g(h) + f(h) \delta + O(\delta^2)$ which is exactly [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^eqn-rk-half-plane]].

In all three cases, we establish [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^eqn-rk]] and complete the proof. □

[^implies]: $P \leq Q$ is simply another notation for $P \Rightarrow Q$