# Polygon Cap and Niche

Following the outline in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa]], we define a polygon cap $K$ and its polygon niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$.

> __Definition [angle-domain].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and nonempty finite subset $\Theta$ of $(0, \omega)$, define $\Theta^{\diamond} := \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. ^def-angle-domain

> __Definition [angled-cap-space].__ Assume $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and a nonempty finite subset $\Theta$ of $(0, \omega)$. Define the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ of _polygon caps with angle set_ $\Theta$ as the set of caps $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ which is an intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles in $\Theta^{\diamond} \cup \left\{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$. ^def-angled-cap-space

Any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ can be approximated by a polygon cap $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K) \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ containing $K$.

> __Definition [angled-cap].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, define the set ^def-angled-cap
$$
\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q_K^+(t).
$$

> __Proposition [angled-cap].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, the set $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K)$ is a member of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ containing $K$ as subset. With this, call $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K)$ the _polygon cap_ with _angle set_ $\Theta$ _approximating_ $K$. Also, the map $\mathcal{C}_\Theta : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is a surjective map fixing the elements of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. ^pro-angled-cap

_Proof._ That $K \subseteq \mathcal{C}_\Theta(K)$ comes from $K \subseteq P_\omega$ and $K \subseteq Q_K^+(t) = H_K(t) \cap H_K(t + \pi/2)$. We have $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K) \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ as $K \subseteq \mathcal{C}_\Theta(K) \subseteq P_\omega$. Then we have $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K) \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ by the formula in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-angled-cap]].

Now it remains to show that for any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, we have $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K) = K$. Since $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is the intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles in $\Pi := \Theta^{\diamond} \cup \left\{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$, we have $K = \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t)$. As $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta \subset \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we have $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\omega + \pi) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$ so
$$
K = \bigcap_{t \in \Pi} H_K(t) = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q_K^+(t) = \mathcal{C}_\Theta(K)
$$
as we wanted. □

> __Definition [angled-niche].__ For every cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ and finite nonempty $\Theta \subset (0, \omega)$, define its _polygon niche_ ^def-angled-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) = P_\omega \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q_K^-(t)
$$
> with angle set $\Theta$.

> __Proposition [angled-niche-polygon-cap].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) = \mathcal{N}_\Theta(\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K))$. ^pro-angled-niche-polygon-cap

_Proof._ Let $K' := \mathcal{C}_\Theta(K)$. The support function $p_X$ of $X = K, K'$ agree on the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$ by definition, and the polygon niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(X)$ only depends on $\omega$ and the values of $p_X$ on $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$. □

> __Definition [polygon-upper-bound].__ Let $\Theta$ be an angle set with rotation angle $\omega$. Define the _polygon sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A}_\Theta : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ as $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) := |\mathcal{C}_\Theta(K)| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$. ^def-polygon-upper-bound

> __Theorem [polygon-upper-bound].__ For any polygon cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ we have $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$. For every cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{A}_{\omega}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$. ^thm-polygon-upper-bound

_Proof._ Consequence of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-angled-cap]] and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-angled-niche]]. □

> __Remark [polygon-upper-bound].__ Note that the upper bound $\mu_{\max} \leq 2.37$ of [@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018] is established by essentially computing an upper estimate of the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_\Theta \geq \mathcal{A}_{\pi/2}$ for a specific set $\Theta$ of five angles. ^rem-polygon-upper-bound

# Outline of Balancing Argument

As described in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa]], we circumvent the issue that the polygon sofa $S_\Theta = K \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ could be disconnected by maximizing $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ with respect to $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. We will show that such maximizer $K_\Theta := K$ is balanced ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa]]).

Let $h : \Theta^{\diamond} \to \mathbb{R}$ be the restriction of the support function $p_K$ of $K$ on the domain $\Theta^{\diamond}$. We will see that $K$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ are simple Nef polygons $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)$ completely determined by the values of $h$ on $\Theta^{\diamond}$ (see [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-height-extensions]]). We will adjust the values of $h : \Theta^{\diamond} \to \mathbb{R}$ to increase the value of
$$
\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h) := |\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)|
$$
as a function of $h$. In context of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa#^eqn-polygon]] in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/05. Balanced Sofa]], the values of $h(\pi/2)$ and $h(\omega)$ controls the locations of $H$ and $V_\omega$ respectively, and for each $t \in \Theta$, the values of $h(t)$ and $h(t + \pi/2)$ together controls the location of $L_t$.

Assume by contradiction that $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is not balanced, and set $h = p_K$. We will adjust $h : \Theta^{\diamond} \to \mathbb{R}$ to a new function $h^+ : \Theta^{\diamond} \to \mathbb{R}$ so that $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h^+) > \mathcal{A}_\Theta(h)$. While we get a convex polygon $K^+ := \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h^+)$ from $h^+$, an issue is that $K^+$ might not be a polygon cap in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ to conclude $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K^+) > \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ as we want. We circumvent this issue by choosing $h^+$ carefully so that $K^+$ is always a _translation_ of some polygon cap $K^0$ in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. By translating $K^+$ back to $K^0$, we properly conclude $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) < \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K^0)$ as we want.

# Extensions of Polygon Cap

We extend the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ of polygon caps to the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ of all _translates_ of polygon caps.

> __Definition [cap-trans].__ Define the space of _polygon cap translates_ $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ as the collection of all translations $K'$ of arbitrary caps $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with angle set $\Theta$. ^def-cap-trans

> __Proposition [cap-trans-space].__ A convex polygon $K'$ is in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ if and only if the followings are true. ^pro-cap-trans-space
> 
> 1. The widths $p_{K'}(\omega) + p_{K'}(\omega + \pi)$ and $p_{K'}(\pi/2) + p_{K'}(3\pi/2)$ of $K'$ measured along the angles $\omega$ and $\pi/2$ are exactly one.
> 2. $K'$ is a convex polygon with normal angles in the set $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \left\{\omega, \pi/2, \omega + \pi, 3\pi/2 \right\}$.

_Proof._ Any translate $K'$ of an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ satisfies (1) and (2) immediately. On the other hand, for any $K'$ satisfying conditions (1) and (2), find a translation $K$ of $K'$ so that $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. □

Subsequently, extend the set of support functions of $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ to the space $\mathcal{H}_\Theta$ of _all_ functions $h : \Theta^{\diamond} \to \mathbb{R}$.

> __Definition [height-space].__ Define $\mathcal{H}_\Theta$ as the space of all functions $h : \Theta^{\diamond} \to \mathbb{R}$. ^def-height-space

> __Proposition [height-space-embedding].__ The map $\mathcal{K}_\Theta' \to \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ mapping $K' \in \mathcal{K}'_\Theta$ to its support function $p_{K'}$ restricted to the domain $\Theta^{\diamond}$ is an injection. ^pro-height-space-embedding

_Proof._ By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-trans-space]], the values of $p_{K'}$ on $\Theta^{\diamond}$ determine
$$
K' = \bigcap_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond} \cup \left\{ \omega + \pi, 3\pi/2 \right\}} H_{K'}(t) \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta'
$$
uniquely. □

We now have a series of extensions $\mathcal{K}_\Theta \subseteq \mathcal{K}_{\Theta'} \hookrightarrow \mathcal{H}_\Theta$. We will extend the notion of cap, niche, and the polygon sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ from $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ to $\mathcal{H}_\Theta$.

> __Definition [height-extensions].__ For any $h \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$, define its _parallelogram_ ^def-height-extensions
$$
P_h := \bigcap_{t \in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\} } H_-(t, h(t)) \cap H_+(t, h(t) - 1)
$$
> and _cap_
$$
\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h) := P_h \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)} H_-(t, h(t))
$$
> and _fan_
$$
F_h := H_+(\omega, h(\omega) - 1) \cap H_+(\pi/2, h(\pi/2) - 1)
$$
> and _niche_
$$
\mathcal{N}_{\Theta}(h) := F_h \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta } \left( H_-^\circ(t, h(t) - 1) \cap H_-^\circ(t + \pi/2, h(t + \pi/2) - 1) \right)
$$
> and the _polygon sofa area functional_
$$
\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h) := |\mathcal{C}(h)| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)|.
$$

> __Proposition [cap-niche-nef-polygons].__ For any $h \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$, the sets $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)$ are simple Nef polygons ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^def-simple-nef-polygon]]) with defining half-planes $H_-(t, h(t))$ for $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$, $H_{+}(t, h(t) - 1)$ for $t \in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$, and $H_-^{\circ}(t, h(t) - 1)$ for $t \in \Theta^{\diamond} \setminus \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. ^pro-cap-niche-nef-polygons

_Proof._ The boundaries of the mentioned half-planes differ as they differ in its angle or distance from the origin. The formula of $\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-height-extensions]] is defined from the mentioned half-planes by applying only union and intersection, so by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^pro-monotone-boolean-function]] the defining boolean function is monotone. □

We show that the notion of cap, niche, and polygon sofa area functional on $\mathcal{H}_\Theta$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-height-extensions]] is compatible with that of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$.

> __Proposition [cap-extension-compatible].__ For any cap translate $K' \in \mathcal{K}'_\Theta$ with $h := p_K \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ we have $\mathcal{C}_{\Theta}(h) = K'$. ^pro-cap-extension-compatible

_Proof._ Consequence of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-trans-space]]. □

> __Proposition [niche-extension-compatible].__ For any polygon cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with $h := p_K \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ we have $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h) = \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$. Consequently, we have $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h) = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$. ^pro-niche-extension-compatible

_Proof._ That $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h) = \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ comes from [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-rotating-hallway-parts]]. Then $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h) = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ comes from [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-extension-compatible]]. □

Now inherit [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-height-extensions]] on $\mathcal{H}_\Theta$ to $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$, completing the definition over extensions $\mathcal{K}_\Theta \subseteq \mathcal{K}_{\Theta'} \hookrightarrow \mathcal{H}_\Theta$.

> __Definition [cap-translate-extensions].__ For any cap translate $K' \in \mathcal{K}'_\Theta$ define $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K')$ and $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K')$ as that of the support function $h := p_{K'}$. That is, $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)$ and $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h)$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-height-extensions]] respectively. ^def-cap-translate-extensions

> __Theorem [height-extensions].__ For any translation $K' := K + \mathbf{v} \in \mathcal{K}_{\Theta}'$ of a polygon cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with rotation angle $\omega$ by $\mathbf{v} \in \mathbb{R}^2$, we have $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K') = \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) + \mathbf{v}$ and $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K') = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$. ^thm-height-extensions

_Proof._ By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-niche-nef-polygons]] and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-cap-translate-extensions]], the polygon $\mathcal{N}_{\Theta}(K')$ is a simple Nef polygon with defining hyperplanes $H_{K'}(t)$ and $H_{K'}(t) - u_t$ (or their complement and interior) for $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$. For any convex body $K$ and fixed $t \in S^1$, the supporting hyperplane $H_K(t)$ is equivariant under the translation of $K$ so that $H_{K + \mathbf{v}}(t) = H_K(t) + \mathbf{v}$. So we have the equivariance $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K') = \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) + \mathbf{v}$. We then have
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K') & = |\mathcal{C}_\Theta(p_{K'})| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(p_{K'})| = |K'| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K')| \\
& = |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)| = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)
\end{align*}
$$
by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-extension-compatible]] and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-niche-extension-compatible]]. □

# Maximum Polygon Sofa

We now define the polygon cap $K_\Theta$ attaining the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$. We also add the condition $o_\omega \in K_\Theta$ for later use.

> __Definition [maximum-polygon-cap].__ Define a cap $K_\Theta \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ a _maximum polygon cap_ with _angle set_ $\Theta$ and _rotation angle_ $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ if (i) $K := K_\Theta$ attains the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_\Theta : \mathcal{K}_\Theta \to \mathbb{R}$ and (ii) $o_\omega \in K_\Theta$. ^def-maximum-polygon-cap

> __Lemma [maximum-polygon-cap-mirror].__ The mirror reflection of any maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is also a maximum polygon cap with same angle set $\Theta$. ^lem-maximum-polygon-cap-mirror

_Proof._ Observe that $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ and $o_\omega$ are preserved under mirror reflection $M_\omega$. □

> __Lemma [polygon-cap-bounded].__ Let $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and $t \in (0, \omega)$ be arbitrary. There exists a constant $c_{\omega, t} > 0$ such that the following holds. Let $\Theta \subset (0, \omega)$ be any finite set containing $t$. Assume that $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ satisfies $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) > 0$. Then the width of $K$ along the direction $u_0$ is at most $c_{\omega, t}$. ^lem-polygon-cap-bounded

_Proof._ If $\omega < \pi/2$, then as $K \subseteq P_\omega$ it suffices to take $c_{\omega, t}$ as the width of $P_\omega$ along the direction $u_0$. Now assume $\omega = \pi/2$ and fix $t$. Take any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with angle set $\Theta$ containing $t$, and let $d$ be the width of $K$ along $u_0$. Then $|K| \leq d$. The wedge $T_K(t)$ is a right triangle of side $\geq d - \sec t - \csc t$ and angle $t$. So $|\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)| \geq |T_K(t)| \geq Q_t(d)$, where $Q_t(d)$ is a quadratic polynomial of $d$ completely determined by $t$, with positive leading coefficient. Now there exists a constant $c_{\pi/2, t} > 0$ so that for any $d > c_{\pi/2, t}$ we have $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) \leq d - Q_t(d) \leq 0$. Take the contraposition to finish the proof. □

> __Theorem [maximum-polygon-cap].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and nonempty finite $\Theta \subset (0, \omega)$, a maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta$ with angle set $\Theta$ exists. ^thm-maximum-polygon-cap

_Proof._ Observe that $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ on $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is continuous with respect to the Hausdorff distance $d_H$ on $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. The term $|K|$ is continuous with respect to $K$ by XX. Fix $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ and take any $K' \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ sufficiently close to $K$ in $d_H$. Then the absolute value of $|\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K')| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ is bounded by the sum of the areas of the symmetric difference between $T_K(t)$ and $T_{K'}(t)$ over each $t \in \Theta$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^pro-wedge]]), and this converges to zero as $K' \to K$ in $d_H$. This shows that $|\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ and thus $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ are both continuous in $K$ with respect to $d_H$.

Let $K_1 \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be the cap with support function $p_{K_1}(t) = 1$ for every $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$. Then $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K_1)$ is empty and we have $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K_1) > 0$. Take $C_\Theta$ as the set of all $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with the width of $K$ at most $c_{\omega, t}$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-polygon-cap-bounded]]. Then by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-polygon-cap-bounded]] the set $C_\Theta$ contains all polygon caps $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) > 0$. By the Blasckhe selection theorem, the domain $C_\Theta$ is compact in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ and a maximizer $K_\Theta$ of continuous $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ in $C_\Theta$ exists. As $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ is at most 0 outside $C_\Theta$, the cap $K_\Theta$ maximizes $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ over the whole $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then we automatically have $o_\omega \in K_\Theta$. If $\omega = \pi/2$, translate $K_\Theta$ horizontally if necessary to have $o_\omega = (0, 1) \in K_\Theta$. □

> __Definition [polyline].__ For any $n \geq 1$ and a finite sequence $p_1, p_2, \dots, p_n \in \mathbb{R}^2$ of points on a plane with strictly increasing $x$-coordinates, call the union of the finite segments connecting adjacent points $p_i$ to $p_{i+1}$ ($1 \leq i < n$) an _$x$-monotone polyline_. ^def-polyline

> __Theorem [polyline].__ For any polygon cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, the boundary of the closed set $F_\omega \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ is a union of the following subsets, from left to right in $\mathbb{R}^2$. ^thm-polyline
> 
> 1. The half-line $\mathbf{l}_K$ starting from $C_K^+(\omega)$ and extending indefinitely in the direction $v_\omega$.
> 2. An $x$-monotone polyline $\mathbf{p}_K$ connecting $C_K^+(\omega)$ to $A_K^-(0)$ from left to right, with each segment of normal angle in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$.
> 3. The half-line $\mathbf{r}_K$ starting from $A_K^-(0)$ and extending indefinitely in the direction of $u_0$.

_Proof._ Let $X := \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} Q_K^-(t)$. As $F_\omega \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) = F_\omega \setminus X$ and $X$ is a Nef polygon closed in the direction of $-v_0$, it suffices to show that $\mathbf{l}_K$ and $\mathbf{r}_K$ are disjoint from $X$. Take any $t \in \Theta$. Since $w_K(t) > 0$ by [[#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the point $A_K^-(0)$ and thus $\mathbf{r}_K$ is on the right side of the boundary $b_K(t)$ of $T_K(t)$. So $\mathbf{r}_K$ is disjoint from $T_K(t)$. Use the symmetric argument to $\mathbf{l}_K$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^rem-mirror-symmetry]]). □

> __Definition [polyline].__ Define the polyline $\mathbf{p}_K$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-polyline]] from $C_K^+(\omega)$ to $A_K^-(0)$ as the _polyline of cap_ $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. ^def-polyline

Now we define the notion of balancedness on any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$.

> __Definition [polyline-length].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ and angle $t \in \Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2)$, define $\nu_K(t)$ as the sum of the lengths of the edges in the polyline $\mathbf{p}_K$ with normal angle $t$. ^def-polyline-length

> __Definition [polygon-cap-balanced].__ Say that a polygonal cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is _balanced_ if and only if for any $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$, we have $\sigma_K(t) = \nu_K(t)$. ^def-polygon-cap-balanced

We now show that any maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-maximum-polygon-cap]] is balanced. We first choose the right angle $t \in \Theta^\diamond$ to balance $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$.

> __Lemma [not-balanced-positive].__ Assume that a polygon cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is _not_ balanced. Then there exists an angle $t \in \Theta^\diamond$ such that $\sigma_K(t) > \nu_K(t)$. ^lem-not-balanced-positive

_Proof._ By following the polyline $\mathbf{p}_K$ from right to left, we have the identity
$$
C_K^+(\omega) - A_K^-(0) = \sum_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} \nu_K(t) v_t.
$$
Also, by following the upper boundary $\delta K$ of $K$ from right to left, we also have the identity
$$
C_K^+(\omega) - A_K^-(0) = \sum_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} \sigma_K(t) v_t.
$$
So we have $\sum_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} (\nu_K(t) - \sigma_K(t)) (v_t \cdot u_0) = 0$ where $v_t \cdot u_0 < 0$ for all $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$. If $\sigma_K(t) \leq \nu_K(t)$ for all $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$, then the equality should hold and $K$ should be balanced. Taking the contraposition concludes the proof. □

Execute the balancing step.

> __Lemma [polyline-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ and be arbitrary. ^lem-polyline-length
> 
> 1. For any $t \in \Theta$, we have $\nu_K(t) = \lambda^1 \left( \partial \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap b_K(t) \right)$ and $\nu_K(t + \pi/2) = \lambda^1 \left( \partial \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap d_K(t) \right)$.
> 2. For any $t \in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$ we have $\nu_K(t) + \lambda^1\left( \partial \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \cap l(t, 0) \right) = \sigma_K(t + \pi)$.

_Proof._ As $\mathbf{p}_K \subseteq F_\omega$, the polyline $\mathbf{p}_K$ is partitioned into disjoint sets $X := \mathbf{p}_K \cap F_\omega^{\circ}$ and $Y := \mathbf{p}_K \cap \partial F_\omega$. Let $Z := e_K(\omega + \pi) \cup e_K(3\pi/2)$ and $W := \partial \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$. Note that $Y \subseteq Z$ and $W, X, Y, Z$ are finite unions of finite segments. We claim that $W$ is the disjoint union of $X$ and $\overline{Z \setminus Y}$. We first have $W \cap F_\omega ^{\circ} = X$ by restricting $\partial (F_\omega \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)) = \mathbf{l}_K \cup \mathbf{p}_K \cup \mathbf{r}_K$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-polyline]] to $F_\omega^{\circ}$. We also have $W \cap \partial F_\omega = \overline{ Z \setminus Y}$, as ..... □

> __Lemma [balancing].__ Let $h \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ be the support function of some $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. Let $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$ be arbitrary. Take $\epsilon > 0$ and define $h^+ \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ as $h^+(t) = h(t) + \epsilon$ and $h^+(u) = h(u)$ for all $u \neq t$. Then we have
$$
\mathcal{A}_\Theta(h^+) = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(h) + (\sigma_K(t) - \nu_K(t)) \epsilon + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
> for sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$ relative to $K$ and $t$. ^lem-balancing

_Proof._ Assume $t \not\in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. We have
$$
|\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h^+)| = |\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)| + \sigma_K(t) \epsilon + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
by applying [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-simple-nef-polygon]] to the simple Nef polygon $K = \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-niche-nef-polygons]] and [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-extension-compatible]]). We also have 
$$
|\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h^+)| = |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)| + \nu_K(t) \epsilon + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
by applying [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-simple-nef-polygon]] to the simple Nef polygon $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-niche-nef-polygons]]) and using (1) of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-polyline-length]]. Subtract the two equations above to conclude the proof.

Assume $t \in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$ now. We have
$$
|\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h^+)| = |\mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)| + (\sigma_K(t) - \sigma_K(t + \pi) ) \epsilon + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
by applying [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-simple-nef-polygon]] twice to $K = \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)$, first pushing $l_K(\pi/2)$ upwards by $\epsilon$ while keeping $l_K(3\pi/2)$ intact, and then increasing $l_K(3\pi/2)$ upwards by $\epsilon$ while keeping $l_K(\pi/2)$. Since the two lines are parallel and of distance 1, the two applications do not intefere with each other. We also have
$$
|\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h^+)| = |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)| + (\sigma_K(t + \pi) - \nu_K(t)) \epsilon + O(\epsilon^2)
$$
by applying [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-simple-nef-polygon]] to $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(h)$ and using (2) of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-polyline-length]]. Subtract the two equations above to conclude the proof. □

Choosing the right angle $t \in \Theta^\diamond$ guarantees that the new function $h^+ \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ with $h^+(t) := h(t) + \epsilon$ corresponds to a cap translate $K^+$.

> __Lemma [height-positive-increment].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be arbitrary with support function $h := p_K \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$, so that $K = \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h)$ by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-extension-compatible]]. Let $t \in \Theta^\diamond$ be arbitrary such that $\sigma_K(t) > 0$. Take any $\epsilon > 0$ and define $h^+ \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ as $h^+(t) := h(t) + \epsilon$ and $h^+(u) := h(u)$ on $u \neq t$. Then for any $\epsilon > 0$ sufficiently small relative to $K$ and $t$, the intersection $K^+ := \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h^+)$ is a cap translate in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$. Also, we get back $h^+ = p_{K^+}$ as the supporting function of $K^+$. ^lem-height-positive-increment

_Proof._ Assume $t \not\in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. Then $K = \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h) \subseteq \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h^+) = K^+$ by the definition of $\mathcal{C}_\Theta$ on $\mathcal{H}_\Theta$. So $K \subseteq K^+ \subseteq P_\omega$ and $K^+ \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ as we want. Now assume $t \in \left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. We first show that $K^+$ is a cap translate. By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^pro-cap-trans-space]] it suffices to show that the width of $K^+$ is one along both $u_\omega$ and $u_{\pi/2}$.

Since $\sigma_K(t) > 0$, we have $p_{K^+}(t) = p_K(t) + \epsilon$ for sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$.[^crucial-proof] As $\epsilon > 0$, we have $p_{K^+}(t + \pi) = p_K(t + \pi) + \epsilon$ as well. So the width of $K^+$ along $u_t$ is one. If $\omega = \pi/2$ then we are done. Otherwise, let $t'$ be the other value than $t$ in $\left\{ \omega, \pi/2 \right\}$. We have $p_{K^+}(t') = p_K(t')$ as $l_K(t)$ moves upwards. Also, as $\sigma_K(t' + \pi) \geq o_\omega \cdot u_0 > 0$, we have $p_{K^+}(t' + \pi) = p_K(t' + \pi)$ as $l_K(t + \pi)$ moves upwards, completing the proof. □

Combine the steps above to show the balancedness of a maximum polygon cap.

> __Theorem [balanced-polygon-sofa].__ Any maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta$ with rotation angle $\omega < \pi/2$ is balanced as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-polygon-cap-balanced]]. ^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa

_Proof._ Assume by contradiction that $K := K_\Theta$ is not balanced. Let $h = p_K \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$, and take $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$ with $\sigma_K(t) > \nu_K(t) \geq 0$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-not-balanced-positive]]. Now take sufficiently small $\epsilon > 0$ and define $h^+ \in \mathcal{H}_\Theta$ and $K^+ = \mathcal{C}_\Theta(h^+)$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-height-positive-increment]]. Then we have $h^+ = p_{K^+}$ and
$$
\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(h) < \mathcal{A}_\Theta(h^+) = \mathcal{A}_\Theta(K^+)
$$
by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-balancing]]. □

We show that for $\omega < \pi/2$, the wedge gap $w_K^{\circ}$ of a maximum polygon cap $K := K_{\Theta}$ is a lower bound of the length of the upper edge $e_K(\pi/2)$. This is a crucial ingredient for the proof of the main theorem.

> __Theorem [balanced-polygon-sofa-ineq].__ For any maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta$ with rotation angle $\omega < \pi/2$, we have $w_K^{\circ} \leq \nu_K(\pi/2)$ and $z_K^{\circ} \leq \nu_K(\omega)$. ^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa-ineq

_Proof._ By mirror symmetry of $K_\Theta$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-maximum-polygon-cap-mirror]]), we only need to show $w_K^{\circ} \leq \nu_K(\pi/2)$. By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-wedge-ends-in-cap]], the closed segment $s_t$ connecting $W_K(t)$ to $A_K^-(0)$ is on the right side of the boundary $b_K(t)$ of $T_K(t)$. Let $s$ be the intersection of $s_t$ over $t \in \Theta$. Then $s$ is a segment of length $w_K^{\circ}$ in $\sigma_K(3\pi/2)$ disjoint from $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$. This implies $w_K^{\circ} \leq \nu_K(\pi/2)$ by (2) of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-polyline-length]]. □

> __Theorem [balanced-polygon-sofa-connected].__ Any maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta$ contains its polygon niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K_{\Theta})$. ^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa-connected

_Proof._ Write $K_\Theta$ as $K := K_\Theta$ to avoid cluttering. By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-polyline]], it suffices to show that any vertex $z$ of the polyline $\mathbf{p}_K$ is contained in $K$. It suffices to show $z \in H_K(t_0)$ for any $t_0 \in \Theta \cup \left\{ \omega \right\}$. Once this is done, apply a corresponding argument to mirror reflection $K_{\mathrm{m}}$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-maximum-polygon-cap-mirror]]) and reflect back to conclude $z \in H_K(\omega + \pi - t)$ for any $t \in \Theta \cup \left\{ \omega \right\}$ as well. Then $z \in F_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} H_K(t) = K$, completing the proof.

Follow $\mathbf{p}_K$ from right to left, from the right endpoint $A_K^-(0)$ to $z$ and stop at $t$. By summing up the contribution of edges between $A_K^-(0)$ and $z$ in $\mathbf{p}_K$, we have 
$$
A_K^-(0) - z = \sum_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} c_t v_t
$$
for coefficients $c_t \in [0, \nu_K(t)]$ for every $t \in \Theta^{\diamond}$. Under this constraint on $c_t$, the value
$$
(z - A_K^-(0)) \cdot u_{t_0} = \sum_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} c_t (v_t \cdot u_{t_0})
$$
is maximized when $c_t = \nu_K(t)$ for all $t \leq t_0$ and $c_t = 0$ otherwise. For such $c_t$ we have
$$
\sum_{t \in \Theta^{\diamond}} c_t v_t = A_K^+(t_0) - A_K^-(0)
$$
as we follow the upper boundary $\delta K$ from $A_K^-(0)$ to $A_K^+(t_0)$. So we have
$$
(z - A_K^-(0)) \cdot u_{t_0} \leq (A_K^+(t_0) - A_K^-(0)) \cdot u_{t_0}
$$
which implies $z \cdot u_{t_0} \leq A_K^+(t_0) \cdot u_{t_0}$, that in turn implies $z \in H_K(t_0)$ as we desired. □

[^crucial-proof]: That $\sigma_K(t) > 0$ is extremely crucial here. Otherwise $K^+$ might have width less than zero. This is why we chose $t$ according to [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^lem-not-balanced-positive]].