A caps $K$ with an angle set $\Theta$ is defined in [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-cap]]. Define the space of all such $K$ with a fixed angle set $\Theta$ as follows.

> __Definition [cap-space].__ Take any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and a closed set $\Theta$ such that $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$. Define the _space of caps_ $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ with the _angle set_ $\Theta$ as the collection of all caps $K$ with the angle set $\Theta$. If the angle set is $\Theta = [0, \omega]$, denote the space $\mathcal{K}_{[0, \omega]}$ simply as $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. ^def-cap-space

Define the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A}(K)$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ or $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ as following.

> __Definition [sofa-area-functional].__ For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and a closed angle set $\left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \subseteq \Theta \subseteq [0, \omega]$, define the _sofa area functional_ $\mathcal{A}_{\Theta} : \mathcal{K}_\Theta \to \mathbb{R}$ on the space of caps $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ as $\mathcal{A}_{\Theta}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. Denote $\mathcal{A}_{[0, \omega]}$ as simply $\mathcal{A}_\omega$. We omit the subscript of $\mathcal{A}$ if the domain $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ or $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ is clear from the context. ^def-sofa-area-functional

The corollary of [[15. Cap contains niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]] is then:

> __Corollary [sofa-area-functional].__ If $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is the cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ for a monotone sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$, we have $\mathcal{A}(K) = |S|$. ^cor-sofa-area-functional

But not all $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is the cap $\mathcal{C}(S)$ of a monotone sofa $S$ as we observed in [[15. Cap contains niche#^rem-niche-not-in-cap]].

> __Definition [monotone-sofa-embedding].__ Denote $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ as the subset of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ consisting of the caps $\mathcal{C}(S)$ ([[10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]]) of arbitrary monotone sofa $S$. ^def-monotone-sofa-embedding

$\mathcal{M}_\omega$ is a proper subset of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ by [[15. Cap contains niche#^rem-niche-not-in-cap]]. The set of all monotone sofas $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ embed to the subset $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ by taking the cap $S \mapsto \mathcal{C}(S)$ by [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]. By [[01. Moving sofa problem#^thm-monotone-sofa]] and [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^cor-sofa-area-functional]], the moving sofa problem for a fixed rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is now equivalent to the maximization of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ on the subspace $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$. We will, however, try to optimize the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ over the whole $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, not the subspace $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ of $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, because the space $\mathcal{K}_\omega$ all caps is easier to understand than the subspace $\mathcal{M}_\omega$. By extending our domain of optimization from $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ to $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, we get a counterpart of every statement on maximum-area monotone sofas.

To start, we have the following stronger variant of [[01. Moving sofa problem#^con-gerver]].

> __Conjecture [gerver-cap].__ The cap $K = K_G$ of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum value $\mathcal{A}(K)$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ over all $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. ^con-gerver-cap

> __Proposition [gerver-cap].__ [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-gerver-cap]] implies [[01. Moving sofa problem#^con-gerver]]. ^pro-gerver-cap

While we don't prove [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-gerver-cap]], we expect it to be true. In pursuit of making progress towards [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^pro-gerver-cap]], the next section proves the following strenghtening of [[01. Moving sofa problem#^thm-main]] along the line of extending the domain from $\mathcal{M}_\omega$ to $\mathcal{K}_\omega$.

> __Theorem [main-cap].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, if the rotation path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0^\circ, 90^\circ] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of $S$ is injective, and always on the fan $F_\omega$, then we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq 1 + \omega^2/2$. ^thm-main-cap

Note that [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] generalizes to an arbitrary rotation angle $\omega$. Note also that the rotation path $\mathbf{x}_S$ of a monotone sofa $S$ in [[01. Moving sofa problem#^thm-main]] is equal to the path $\mathbf{x}_K$ of the inner corner of the tangent hallways ([[07. Tangent hallway#^def-rotating-hallway-parts]]) of the cap $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ by [[12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^cor-cap-same-tangent-hallway]]. With all this:

> __Proposition [main-cap].__ [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] implies [[01. Moving sofa problem#^thm-main]]. ^pro-main-cap

We end by mentioning the counterparts of angle and injectivity hypotheses ([[01. Moving sofa problem#^con-angle]] and [[01. Moving sofa problem#^con-injectivity]]).

> __Conjecture [angle-cap].__ The supremum of $\mathcal{A}_{\omega} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ maximizes at $\omega = \pi/2$. ^con-angle-cap

> __Conjecture [injectivity-cap].__ There exists a maximizer $K$ of $\mathcal{A}_{\pi/2}$ such that the path $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \pi/2] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is injective and always on or above the line $y = -1$. ^con-injectivity-cap

Perhaps surprisingly, neither [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-angle-cap]] nor [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]] does not necessarily imply the angle and injectivity hypotheses immediately. This is because a maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_\omega$ does not necessarily need to be the actual cap of a monotone sofa. However, observe that [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^thm-main-cap]] with [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]] proves the upper bound $1 + \pi^2/8$ of sofa area with $\omega = \pi/2$ unconditionally, and with [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-angle-cap]] the bound becomes also unconditional with respect to arbitrary $\omega$. Proving [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-angle-cap]] and [[20. Sofa area functional/00. Preface#^con-injectivity-cap]] will be the main goal of a subsequent paper following this paper.