> __Definition [varphi-constants].__ Define $\varphi_R = \varphi$ and $\varphi_L = \pi/2 - \varphi$, where $\varphi$ comes from the derivation of Gerver's sofa, so that $\varphi_R \in (0, \pi/4)$ and $\varphi_L \in (\pi/4, \pi/2)$ in particular. ^def-varphi-constants

> __Remark [varphi-constants].__ Most of the calculations will work for arbitrary choice of $\varphi_R \in (0, \pi/4)$ and $\varphi_L \in (\pi/4, \pi/2)$. The only exceptions where we use the explicit value is the disjointness of .  ^rem-varphi-constants

We will first define an upper bound $\mathcal{A}_u^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$ on the set of x-monotone caps. Recall that the niche of Gerver's sofa $S_G$ with cap $K_G$ consists of two tails and one core $\mathbf{x}_{K_G}$ restricted to $[\varphi_R, \varphi_L]$. We generalize this notion to arbitrary x-monotone cap $K$.

We will trace out a curve $\mathbf{z}_K$ below the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ to bound the area of $\mathcal{N}(K)$ from below. We will fix constants $\varphi_R \in (0, \pi/2)$ and $\varphi_L \in (\pi/4, \pi/2)$ and assume the core traced out by $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ for $t \in [\varphi_R, \varphi_L]$. Then $\mathbf{z}_K$ is defined as the tail $\mathbf{b}_K$ formed by walls $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\varphi_L, \pi/2]$ and  (see XX).

We first show that any curve $\mathbf{z}$ below the 

> __Lemma [curve-area-functional-lower-bound].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ be arbitrary. Let $\mathbf{z} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be any Jordan curve below the set $F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$, such that the starting point $\mathbf{z}(t_0)$ is on the boundary $l(\pi/2, 0) \cap F_\omega$ of $F_\omega$, and the endpoint $\mathbf{z}(t_1)$ is on the boundary $l(\omega, 0) \cap F_\omega$ of $F_\omega$. Then we have $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z}) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. ^lem-curve-area-functional-lower-bound

_Proof._ Define $\mathbf{b}$ as the curve from $\mathbf{z}(t_1)$ to $\mathbf{z}(t_0)$ along the boundary $\partial F_\omega$ of fan $F_\omega$ (so $\mathbf{b}$ is either a segment or the concatenation of two segments). Since $\mathbf{z}$ is injective, we have $\mathbf{z}(t_0) \neq \mathbf{z}(t_1)$ so $\mathbf{b}$ is also an open simple curve. For every $\epsilon > 0$, define the closed curve $\Gamma_\epsilon$ as the concatenation of the following curves in order: the curve $\mathbf{z}(t)$, the vertical segment from $\mathbf{z}(t_1)$ to $\mathbf{z}(t_1) - (0, \epsilon)$, the curve $\mathbf{b} - (0, \epsilon)$ shifted downwards by $\epsilon$, and then the vertical segment from $\mathbf{z}(t_0) - (0, \epsilon)$ to $\mathbf{z}(t_0)$. The curve $\Gamma_{\epsilon}$ is a Jordan curve because $\mathbf{z}$ is an open simple curve inside $F_\omega$. By Jordan curve theorem, the curve $\Gamma_\epsilon$ encloses an open set $\mathcal{N}_\epsilon$. Define $\mathcal{N}_0$ as the intersection $F_{\omega} \cap \mathcal{N}_{\epsilon}$, then $\mathcal{N}_0$ is independent of the choice of $\epsilon > 0$; for any $\epsilon_1 > \epsilon_2 > 0$, there is a continuous deformation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that fixes $F_\omega$ and shrinks $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus F_\omega$ vertically so that it shrinks $\Gamma_{\epsilon_1}$ to $\Gamma_{\epsilon_2}$. Moreover, $\mathcal{N}_{\epsilon}$ is the disjoint union of $\mathcal{N}_0$ and the fixed region below $\partial F_\omega$ of area $\left| \mathbf{z}(t_1) - \mathbf{z}(t_0) \right| \epsilon$.

We have $\left| \mathcal{N}_\epsilon \right| = \left| \mathcal{I}(\Gamma_\epsilon) \right|$ by Green's theorem on $\Gamma_\epsilon$ regardless of the orientation of $\Gamma_\epsilon$. By sending $\epsilon \to 0$, we have $\left| \mathcal{N}_0 \right| = \left| \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z}) \right|$. We now show $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$ which finishes the proof. Take any $p \in \mathcal{N}_0$. Take the ray $r$ emanating from $p$ in the direction $v_0$, then it should cross some point $q \neq p$ in the curve $\mathbf{z}$. As $\mathbf{z}$ is inside the set $F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$, the point $q$ is contained in $F_{\omega} \cap \overline{Q_K^-(t)}$ for some $0 \leq t \leq \omega$. We have $t \neq 0, \omega$ because $q$ is strictly above the boundary of $F_\omega$, and for $t=0, \pi/2$ the set $Q^-_K(t)$ is either on or below $\partial F_\omega$. Because the point $p$ is in $F_{\omega}$ and strictly below the point $q$, it should be that $p$ is contained in $F_{\pi/2} \cap Q_K^-(t)$. So the point $p$ is in the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$, and we have $\mathcal{N}_0 \subseteq \mathcal{N}(K)$. □

> __Definition [tails-general].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ be arbitrary x-monotone cap. For any constant $\varphi_R \in (0, \pi/4)$, define the convex set ^def-tails-general
$$
B_K^{\varphi_R} := K \cap \bigcap_{t \in [\varphi_R, \pi/2]} H_K^b(t)
$$
> and using it, define the _right tail_ $\mathbf{b}_K := \mathbf{u}_{B_K}^{\pi + \varphi_R, 3\pi/2}$. Likewise, for any $\varphi_L \in (\pi/4, \pi/2)$, define the set
$$
D_K = K \cap H^-(0, \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L) \cdot u_0) \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \varphi_L]} g_K^d(t)
$$
> and using it, define the _left tail_ $\mathbf{d}_K := \mathbf{e}_{K_d}^{[0, \varphi_L] + \pi}$.

> __Lemma [cap-cut-subset].__ We have $K \cap H_K^b(\varphi_R) \subseteq B_K^{\varphi_R}$. $K \cap H_K^d (\varphi_L) \subseteq D_K^{\varphi_L}$. ^lem-cap-cut-subset

> __Lemma [tail-curve-area-functional].__ We have $\mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{b}_K^{\varphi_R} \right) \leq \mathcal{N}(K) \cap H_K^b(\varphi_R)$. ^lem-tail-curve-area-functional

Fix the constants $\varphi_R, \varphi_L$ and an arbitrary cap $K \in \mathcal{K}$. To avoid cluttering, write $b := \overline{b}_K(\varphi_R)$ and $H_b := H_K^b(\varphi_R)$, so that $H_b$ is the half-plane bounded by line $b$.

Partition $K$ into the regions $K \cap H_b$, and $K_R = K \cap H_K^d (\varphi_L)$ and $K_M = K \setminus H_K^b(\varphi_R) \setminus H_K^d (\varphi_L)$. 

The curve $\mathbf{x}_K : [\varphi_R, \varphi_L] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is inside $K_M$ because of monotonicity. Take the cone $Y$ bounded by the lines $b$ and $d$. 

> __Remark [cap-tail-extension].__ Taking the curves $\mathbf{b}_K$ can be seen as taking the Wulff shape $K_b$ of the function $1 - p_K(t)$. In particular, the map $K \mapsto \mathbf{b}_K$ is not convex-ilnear, and it is not guaranteed that the support function of the convex body $K_b$ matches with $1 - p_K(t)$. Moreover, it is not guaranteed that $K_b$ is smooth even if boundary of $K$ is smooth. This is why we work with full generality in [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/00. Preface]].  ^rem-cap-tail-extension

> __Definition [z-tracing-path].__ Fix arbitrary constants $\varphi_R \in (0, \pi/4)$ and $\varphi_L \in (\pi/4, \pi/2)$. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ be arbitrary x-monotone cap. Define $\mathbf{z}_K^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ as the curve which is the concatenation of the following curves. Write $\mathbf{b} := \mathbf{b}_K^{\varphi_R}$ and $\mathbf{d} := \mathbf{d}_K^{\varphi_L}$ to avoid cluttering. ^def-z-tracing-path
> 
> 1. $\mathbf{b}$
> 2. The line segment from $v_{\mathbf{b}}^-(\varphi_R + \pi)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_R)$.
> 3. $\mathbf{x}_K|_{[\varphi_L, \varphi_R]}$.
> 4. The line segment from $\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L)$ to $v_{\mathbf{d}}^+(\varphi_L + \pi)$.
> 5. $\mathbf{d}$

Then $\mathbf{z}_K^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ is a curve below the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. Define $\mathcal{A}_2^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ as $|K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z}_K^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L})$.

Correspondingly, define $\mathcal{Q}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L} : \mathcal{K}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ as

By Green's theorem, we have the following.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-area].__ (Theorem 10.43, p289 of [@apostol2000visual]) If $\mathbf{x}$ is a Jordan curve oriented counterclockwise (resp. clockwise), $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the exact area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$ (resp. the area with a negative sign). ^pro-curve-area-functional-area

We now define the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_2 : \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2} \to \mathbb{R}$ of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}$. Recall the [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/04. Area functionals#^def-curve-area-functional]] of the _curve area functional_
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t) dy(t) - y(t) dx(t)
$$
for an arbitrary curve $\Gamma$ with rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$..

If $\mathbf{x}$ is not closed (that is, $\mathbf{x}(a) \neq \mathbf{x}(b)$), the sofa area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}$, and two line segments connecting the origin to $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ respectively. We also have the following additivity of $\mathcal{I}$.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-additive].__ If $\gamma$ is the concatenation of two curves $\alpha$ and $\beta$ then $\mathcal{I}(\gamma) = \mathcal{I}(\alpha) + \mathcal{I}(\beta)$. ^pro-curve-area-functional-additive

For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$, we will define $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ as the area of $K$ minus the area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega]$. We will express the area enclosed by $\mathbf{x}_K$ as $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$. With this, define the functional $\mathcal{A}_1 : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$ as the following.

> __Definition [a1].__ For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and cap $K$ in $\mathcal{K}_\omega$, define $\mathcal{A}_{1, \omega}(K) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$. If the angle $\omega$ is clear from the context, denote $\mathcal{A}_{1, \omega}$ as simply $\mathcal{A}_1$. ^def-a1

We now show that $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is an upper bound of the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ if $\mathbf{x}_K$ is injective and in the fan $F_\omega$. Our key observation is the following.

We can freely choose the curve $\mathbf{z}$ inside the set $F_{\pi/2} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \pi/2} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$. In this paper, we simply choose $\mathbf{z} = \mathbf{x}_K$ and get the following.

> __Theorem [a1-upper-bound].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\omega}$, if the curve $\mathbf{x}_K : [0, \omega] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is injective and in $F_\omega$, we have $\mathcal{A}(K) \leq \mathcal{A}_1(K)$. ^thm-a1-upper-bound

_Proof._ Since $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in \overline{Q_K^-(t)}$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$ and we assumed that $\mathbf{x}_K(t) \in F_\omega$, the curve $z := \mathbf{x}_K$ is an open simple curve inside $F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{0 \leq t \leq \omega} \overline{Q^-_K(t)}$. Also, by $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ we have $\mathbf{x}_K(0) \in l(\pi/2, 0)$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(\omega) \in l(\omega, 0)$. So the curve $\mathbf{z} := \mathbf{x}_K$ satisfies the condition of [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^lem-curve-area-functional-lower-bound]], and we have $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) \leq |\mathcal{N}(K)|$. So we have 
$$
\mathcal{A}(K) = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)| \leq |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) = \mathcal{A}_1(K)
$$
which finishes the proof. □

We embed $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ in a larger convex space $\mathcal{L}$ and extend $\mathcal{A}_2$ on $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ to functional $\mathcal{Q}$ on $\mathcal{L}$. Unlike $\mathcal{A}_2$ on $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$, $\mathcal{Q}$ on $\mathcal{L}$ turns out to be quadratic and concave.

> __Definition [cap-tail-space].__ Let $\varphi_R \in (0, \pi/4)$ and $\varphi_L \in (\pi/4, \pi/2)$ be arbitrary constants. Define the _cap-tail space_ $\mathcal{L}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ as the space of tuples $(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d})$ of a cap $K \in \mathcal{K}$, curve $\mathbf{b} \in \mathcal{U}^{\pi + \varphi_R, 3\pi/2}$, and curve $\mathbf{d} \in \mathcal{U}^{\pi, \pi + \varphi_L}$ such that the followings are true. ^def-cap-tail-space
> 
> 1. $\sigma_K\left( \left\{ t \right\} \right) = 0$ for all $t \in [0, \pi] \setminus \left\{ \pi/2 \right\}$.
> 2. For every $t \in [\varphi_R, \pi/2]$, we have $h_K(t) + h_{\mathbf{b}}(\pi + t) \leq 1$.
> 3. We have $h_{\mathbf{b}}(\pi + \varphi_R) = 1 - h_K(\varphi_R)$ and $h_\mathbf{b}(3\pi/2) = 0$. That is, the equality in (2) holds for endpoints $t = \varphi_R, \pi/2$.
> 4. For every $t \in [0, \varphi_L]$, we have $p_K(t + \pi/2) + p_{\mathbf{d}}(\pi + t) \leq 1$.
> 5. We have $h_{\mathbf{b}}(\pi + \varphi_R) = 1 - h_K(\varphi_R)$ and $h_\mathbf{b}(3\pi/2) = 0$. That is, the equality in (2) holds for endpoints $t = \varphi_R, \pi/2$.

> __Proposition [extended-cap-space].__ The space $\mathcal{L}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ is a convex space containing any limiting maximum sofa and Gerver's sofa. ^pro-extended-cap-space

_Proof._ The product $\mathcal{T}$ of convex spaces $\mathcal{K}$, $\mathcal{U}^{\pi + \varphi_R, 3\pi/2}$, and $\mathcal{U}^{\pi, \pi + \varphi_L}$ is naturally a convex space. All conditions in [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Upper Bound Q/05. Definition of Q#^def-cap-tail-space]] are linear equalities and inequalities on $(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d}) \in \mathcal{T}$, so restricting $\mathcal{T}$ to such conditions gives a subspace $\mathcal{L}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$ which is a convex space. □

> __Proposition [cap-tail-extension].__ $K \mapsto (K, \mathbf{b}_K, \mathbf{d}_K)$ is a well-defined injection $\mathcal{K}_{\pi/2} \to \mathcal{K}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}$. ^pro-cap-tail-extension

> __Definition [upper-bound-q].__ Define the function $\mathcal{Q}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L} : \mathcal{L}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L} \to \mathbb{R}$ as ^def-upper-bound-q
$$
\mathcal{Q}^{\varphi_R, \varphi_L}(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d}) = |K| - \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{b}) - \mathcal{I}(w_K(\varphi_R), \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_R)) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{x}_K|_{[\varphi_R, \varphi_L]} \right) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L), z_K(\varphi_L)) - \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{d}).
$$

