We now calculate the directional derivative of $\mathcal{Q}$. We prepare calculations for the convex curves $\mathbf{b}$ and $\mathbf{d}$, and the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$.

> __Theorem [derivative-area-convex-curve].__ Let $I = [t_0, t_1]$ be any closed interval in $S^1$. The directional derivative of $\mathcal{I}$ on $\mathcal{E}_{I}$ at $\mathbf{e} \in \mathcal{E}_{I}$ in the direction towards $\mathbf{e}^* \in \mathcal{E}_I$ is ^thm-derivative-area-convex-curve
$$
D\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{e}; \mathbf{e}^*) = \int_{t \in I} (p_\mathbf{e^*}(t) - p_\mathbf{e}(t)) \, \sigma_{\mathbf{e}} (dt) + \mathcal{I}(v_\mathbf{e}^-(t_0), ).
$$

_Proof._ Use the last term of [[a. Convex bodies/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]].  □

In particular, the degenerate case $t_0 = t_1 = t$ at [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/15. Upper Bound Q/15. Directional Derivative of Q#^thm-derivative-area-convex-curve]] above gives the directional derivative of line segments.

We now calculate the derivative of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K)$ with respect to $K$. We have the following general calculation for the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^* : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ be two rectifiable curves. Then the following holds. ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\mathcal{D} \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \left[ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))  \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t) \right] +  \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a), \mathbf{x}_1(a))
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on rectifiable $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. Apply [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get ^eqn-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} 2\mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1) - 2 \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_1).
$$
Using the integration by parts ([[a. Convex bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]), we have
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t) = \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}_2(t) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)
$$
or
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a) - \mathbf{x}_2(a)) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1).
$$
Plug this back in [[#^eqn-variation-curve]] and rearrange to get the claimed equality in [[#^thm-variation-curve]]. □

We introduce a measure $\iota_K$ to calculate the directional derivative of $\mathcal{I}$ on the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K$ of cap $K$.

> __Definition [i-cap].__ For any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$, define the function $i_K : (0, \pi] \to \mathbb{R}$ as $i_K(t) = h_K^+(t) - 1$ and $i_K(t + \pi / 2) = g^+_K(t) - 1$ for every $t \in (0, \pi/2]$. Define $\iota_K$ as the measure on $[0, \pi]$ derived from the density function $i_K$. That is, $\iota_K(dt) = i_K(t) dt$ and $\iota_K\left( \left\{ 0 \right\} \right) = 0$ in particular. ^def-i-cap

[[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]] is motivated by the following lemma.

> __Lemma [i-cap].__ Let $I \subseteq [0, \pi/2]$ be any interval. Let $K, K^* \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ be arbitrary. Then the following holds. ^lem-i-cap
$$
\int_{t \in I} \mathbf{x}_{K}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_{K^*} (t) = \left< p_{K} - 1, \iota_{K^*} \right>_{I \cup (I + \pi/2)} 
$$

_Proof._ By [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] and [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^pro-arm-length-unsigned]], the derivative of $\mathbf{x}_{K_2}(t)$ with respect to $t$ exists almost everywhere and is the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}'_{K_2}(t) = -(g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) \mu_t + (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) \nu_t
$$
Meanwhile, we have the following.
$$
\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) = (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) \mu_t + 
(p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) \nu_t
$$
So the cross-product $\mathbf{x}_{K_1}(t) \times \mathbf{x}_{K_2}'(t)$ is equal to the following almost everywhere.
$$
(h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1)
$$
Now the left-hand side is equal to
$$
\int_{t \in J} (h_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t) - 1) + (g_{K_2}^+(t) - 1) (p_{K_1} (t + \pi / 2) - 1) \, dt
$$
and by [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/15. Directional derivative of A1#^def-i-cap]] this integral is equal to $\left< p_{K_1} - 1, \iota_{K_2} \right>_{I \cup (I + \pi/2)}$. □

> __Theorem [variation-a2].__ Let $(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d})$ and $(K^*, \mathbf{b}^*, \mathbf{d}^*)$ be two elements of $\mathcal{L}$. Then we have the following. ^thm-variation-a2
$$
\begin{align*}
D\mathcal{Q}(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d}; K^*, \mathbf{b}^*, \mathbf{d}^*) & =
\left< p_{K^*} - p_K, \beta_K \right>_{[0, \pi]} -
\left< p_{K^*} - p_K, \iota_{K_1} \right>_{[\varphi_R, \varphi_L]} \\
& \phantom{=} + 
\left< p_\mathbf{b^*} - p_\mathbf{b}, \beta_\mathbf{b} \right>_{[\varphi_R, \pi/2] + \pi} + 
\left< p_\mathbf{d^*} - p_\mathbf{d}, \beta_\mathbf{d} \right>_{[0, \varphi_L] + 3\pi/2} \\
& \phantom{=} + \left( (v_{\mathbf{b}}^+(\varphi_L) - \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L)) \cdot v_0 \right) \left( \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L) \cdot u_0 \right) \\
& \phantom{=} + \left( (v_{\mathbf{b}}^+(\varphi_L) - \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L)) \cdot v_0 \right) \left( \mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L) \cdot u_0 \right) 
\end{align*}
$$

_Proof._ □

Now we finally let $\varphi_R = \varphi$ and $\varphi_L = \pi/2 - \varphi$ and calculate the directional derivative at Gerver's sofa.

> __Theorem [variation-a2-gerver].__ Let $\varphi_R = \varphi$ and $\varphi_L = \varphi$, and let $(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d}) := (K_G, \mathbf{b}_{K_G}, \mathbf{d}_{K_G})$ be the cap and two tails of Gerver's sofa. Then $D \mathcal{Q}(K, \mathbf{b}, \mathbf{d}; -) \leq 0$. ^thm-variation-a2-gerver

_Proof._ Since $v_{\mathbf{b}}^+(\varphi_L) =\mathbf{x}_K(\varphi_L)$, the vertical term zeroes out.

1. $p_K(t) + p_{\mathbf{b}}(t + \pi) = 1$ on $t \in [0, \theta]$.
2. $\beta_K(dt) = dt/2$ on $t \in [0, \varphi]$
3. $\beta_K(dt) = \beta_{\mathbf{b}}(dt + \pi) +  \iota_K(dt)$ on $t \in [\varphi, \theta]$
4. $\beta_K(dt) = \iota_K(dt)$ on $t \in [\theta, \pi/2 - \theta]$
5. $A^{\rightangle}$

□