Let $\Theta$ be a fixed, finite set of angles:
$$
0 = \theta_0 < \theta_1 < \theta_2 < \cdots < \theta_n = \pi/2
$$

%% TODO: The paragraph above can be made more clear %%


It often helps to denote a part of the sofa polygon simply by using index.

> __Definition [sofa-polygon-notations].__ Let the index $0 \leq i \leq n$ be taken arbitrary. Define the following notions for an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. ^def-sofa-polygon-notations
> 
> - $p_i = p(\theta_i)$, $\mathbf{x}_i = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_i)$, $\mathbf{y}_i = \mathbf{y}_K(\theta_i)$
> - Lines $a_i = a_K(\theta_i)$, $b_i = b_K(\theta_i)$, $c_i = c_K(\theta_i)$, $d_i = d_K(\theta_i)$.
> - With a bit of abuse of notation, we will also define $d_i = c_{n + i}$ for any negative index $-n \leq i < 0$ as well. In this way, the niche of $S$ is bounded by a polyline forming. Also, the slope of $d_i$ increases by the index $i$, and is positive when $i > 0$ and negative when $i < 0$. Define the normal vectors $v_i$ of $d_i$ including the negative vectors.
> - $A_0 = a_0 \cap l(0, \pi/2)$ and $A_i = a_{i} \cap a_{i-1}$ for $i > 0$.

All the terms we defined are expressed affine-linearly in terms of the coordinates of $K$. Moreover, the intersections of $d_i \cap d_j$ for $-n \leq i, j \leq n$ are expressible in affine-linear terms of $K$. 

Calculation:
$p_i$ $p_j$ $p_k$ $v_i$ $v_j$ $v_k$
When does the line $l_i = l(p_i, v_i)$ form cap or a cup?

$x \cdot v_i = p_i$
$x \cdot v_k = p_k$
Comparing $x \cdot v_j$ with $p_j$
$x = a u_i + b u_k$
$b (u_i \times u_k) = b (u_k \cdot v_i) = p_i$
$-a (u_i \times u_k) = a (u_i \cdot v_k) = p_k$
$x \cdot v_j = a(u_i \cdot v_j) + b (u_k \cdot v_j) = -a(u_i \times u_j) - b (u_k \times u_j) \leq p_j$

Equivalent to:
$p_k (u_i \times u_j) - p_i (u_k \times u_j) \leq p_j (u_i \times u_k)$
$p_k (u_i \times u_j) + p_i (u_i \times u_k) + p_j (u_i \times u_k) \leq 0$




TODO for above:
- What are the exact conditions for them to hold?
- How do we transfer one information to another?

SKETCH:
> If . This is how current `SofaDesigner` is implemented, but any coordinate system of $p_i$ can be chosen. 


- The space of hallway intersections with finite angles is finite-dimensional
	- Has three sets of variables: x, p, boundary measure values.
	- Has a finite number of inequalities constraints on the variables.

`SofaDesigner` produces a proof tree on such space of polygonal sofas.

Let's make no distintion between a polytope $P$ and its list of inequalities.

> __Definition [branch-tree].__ A _branch tree_ $T$ is is a binary tree consisting of the followings. ^def-branch-tree
> 
> - Each node is a finite set of inequalities. 
> - The root node $T$ represents the domain of interest.
> - Any non-leaf node of $T$ is split into two childs $N \cup \left\{ I \right\}$ and $N \cup \left\{ I^c \right\}$ by an inequality $I$.
> - such that each node $N$ of $T$ is either a leaf node, or has exactly two  

In this way, the domain of the root of $T$ is a disjoint union of the domain of the leaf nodes of $T$.

A convex polytope $P$ of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is described by inequalities attached to it. Say that a polytope $P \subseteq \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ _admits_ polyline $\mathbf{i} = i_0, \dots, i_m$ if it is guaranteed that the vertices $l_{i_k} \cap l_{i_{k+1}}$ are guaranteed to appear in the order from left to right. This is a bunch of linear inequalities and can be readily checked using linear programming. Then, we have the following lemma.

$\mathcal{A} \leq \mathcal{A}_{\mathbf{i}}$
So 

> __Definition [sofa-branch-tree].__ A branch tree $T$ is a _sofa branch tree_ with angle set $\Theta$ if the followings hold. ^def-sofa-branch-tree
> 
> - The root node $T$ represents the convex polytope $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$.
> - Every leaf node of $T$ is either _invalid_ or _valid_.
> - A invalid node $P$ is equipped with an admitted polyline $\mathbf{i}$, so that the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_\mathbf{i}$ constrainted to $P$ is at most $2.2195\dots$.
> - A valid node $P$ is also equipped with an admitted polyline $\mathbf{i}$, and represents a subset $P \cap \left\{ \mathcal{A}_{\mathbf{i}} \geq 2.2195 \right\}$.

Consider any set $N$ of inequalities. We use an abuse of notation, so that $N$ also denotes the subset of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ described by $N$. 




- Definition of a tree
	- Node = Quadratic Programming
	- Branching = inequality and its antisymmetric ineq 

- What does it take to verify a tree
	- Check that it is positive semidefinite
	- Check area
	- Check polyline
		- Check the vertices in the increasing order.
		- Check each segment is properly contained in coordinates.

- Question: Why can we assume that $p_0$ = 0? By translation of course. But we also have to ensure that the functionals we bound for is invariant under this translation.

- Read json files and do branching
- Make sure that same logic produces same result

- Old logic
	- Inside union vs. Outside union?
- New logic
	- Divide into vertical lines
	- For each, do case analysis on over/under 

- Fix splitting logic
	- Once split, forget everything and just remember which nodes it split to
	- 

- Need: all collection of nodes in tree
- Index of nodes




```json
{
    1: "s 1",
    2: "s 2",
}
```

```json
N12: {
    is_leaf: false,
    split_by: 34,
    child_pos: "N45",
    child_neg: "N56",
}
```


```json
{
    n : 5,
    angles: [{"cos": "23234/234234", "sin": "234234/234324"}, {"cos": "234334", "sin": "24334"},],
    split_values: {
	    "1": "E 0 3", "2": "F 3 4", "3": "G 4 5",
    },
    tree: {
        N1: {
        },
        N2: {
        },
    }
}
```

Node -> if invalid, reports death to tree



How to design proofs of inequalities?