> __Lemma [vertex-approximation].__ $A_{i+1}= A^{\pm}_K(t_i) + \lambda v_i$ for some nonnegative $\lambda$. $A_{i}= A^{\pm}_K(t_i) - \lambda v_i$ for some nonnegative $\lambda$. $C_{i} = C^{\pm}_K(t_i) - \lambda u_i$ for some nonnegative $\lambda$. $C_{i-1} = C_K^{\pm}(t_i) + \lambda u_i$ for some nonnegative $\lambda$. ^lem-vertex-approximation

> __Theorem [upper-bound-leg].__ Fix an interval $[t_{i}, t_{i+1}]$. For any $t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]$, we have $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ bounded from above by the following value. ^thm-upper-bound-leg
$$
\frac{(C_i - A_i) \cdot v_{i+1}}{\cos(t_{i+1} - t_i)}
$$

_Proof._ Note that $g_{K}^+(t) = \int_{[t, t+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t) \, \beta_K(du)$. So everything is bounded from above by
$$
L = \int_{[t_i, t_{i+1}+\pi/2]} f(u) \, \beta_K(du)
$$
where $f(u) = 1$ if $u \leq t_{i+1}$, and $f(u) = \cos(u - t_{i+1})$ if $u > t_{i+1}$.
Define $U$ as the following value. Note that the second equality holds by [[03. Surface Area Measure#^thm-surface-area-measure-vertex]].
$$
U = (C^-_K(t_{i+1}) - A^-_K(t_{i})) \cdot v_{i+1} = \int_{[t_i, t_{i+1}+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t_{i+1}) \, \beta_K(du)
$$
Observe that $L \leq U \cdot (1/\cos(t_{i+1} - t_i))$ because $f(u) \leq \cos(u - t_{i+1}) / \cos(t_{i+1} - t_i)$ for all $u \in [t_i, t_{i+1}  + \pi/2]$. Then use [[02. Bounding Leg Lengths#^lem-vertex-approximation]] to bound $U$ further from above by $(C_i - A_i) \cdot v_{t_{i+1}}$. □

> __Theorem [lower-bound-leg].__ Fix an interval $[t_{i}, t_{i+1}]$. For any $t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]$, we have $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ bounded from below by the following value. ^thm-lower-bound-leg
$$
(C_i - A_{i+2}) \cdot v_{i}
$$

_Proof._ Note that $g_{K}^-(t) = \int_{(t, t+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t) \, \beta_K(du)$. So for all $t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]$,
$$
g_K^-(t) \geq \int_{(t_{i+1}, t_i+\pi/2]} \cos(u - t_{i}) \, \beta_K(du) = \left( C_K^+(t_i) - A^+_K(t_{i+1}) \right) \cdot v_i
$$
The equality holds by [[03. Surface Area Measure#^thm-surface-area-measure-vertex]]. Now use [[02. Bounding Leg Lengths#^lem-vertex-approximation]] to bound it from below.
□

Bounding $g^+_K(t)$ where $t$ is near $\pi/2$ is a hard task.

We instead bound $h^+_K(t)$ where $t$ is near zero by symmetry.
Use the gap bounds to bound $h^+_K(0)$ from below. It's the minimum distance from $C^+_K(0)$ to $A^-_K(0)$ in the direction of $u_0$. We claim that for every $t \geq 0$, $h^+_K(t)$ is at least the distance between two such points measured in the direction of $u_t$.

We have a triangle of width 37/32 and height 1. Can I do some euclidean geometry to show the full injectivity on first interval? Or should I do something more in calculation (different partition)?


Much better idea: find two 'pivot points' $p$ and $q$. Bound every legs or $Q-$ by approximating with 