We identified a maximum-area moving sofa $S$ with the intersection $\mathcal{I} := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_t$ of strips and rotating hallways in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa]]. Gerver [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] derived his sofa $S_G$ using a discrete approximation of $\mathcal{I}$. Take a finite nonempty subset $\Theta$ of $(0, \omega)$ and the polygon intersection ^eqn-polygon
$$
\mathcal{I}_\Theta := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} L_t
$$
as the approximation of $S = \mathcal{I}$. Ignoring the connectedness of $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ for now, the approximated problem is to maximize the area of $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ by freely translating each hallway $L_t$ rotated counterclockwise by $t \in \Theta$.

Gerver called a polygon $P$ _balanced_ if for any unit vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$, the sum of the lengths of edges of $P$ with normal vector $v$ is equal to that of the opposite normal vector $-v$. A (not necessarily connected) maximum-area $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ then should be balanced. Otherwise, we could push one of the $H$, $V_\omega$ or $L_t$ by a small distance in a direction orthogonal to the unbalanced side lengths and increase the area slightly, and if we pushed either $H$ or $V_\omega$, translate the whole $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ to move $H$ or $V_\omega$ back to its position.

Gerver derived his conjectually optimum sofa $S_G$ by taking the limit of balanced intersections $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ as $\Theta$ becomes denser in $[0, \omega]$. This argument is streamlined in [@romikDifferentialEquationsExact2018] as solving a set of ordinary differential equations. However, this balancing argument on $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ may break if we require $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ to be connected, as it is possible that moving one of $L_t$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/05. Balanced Sofa#^eqn-polygon]] may make $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ disconnected.

We show that for any $\Theta$, the connected intersection $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ of the largest area is also balanced, by carefully balacing $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ while making it still connected.

> __Theorem [polygon-sofa-connected].__ (abriged; see XX for the full statement.) For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and nonempty finite $\Theta \subseteq (0, \omega)$, and any connected intersection $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ of the form in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/05. Balanced Sofa#^eqn-polygon]] attaining the maximum area, the polygon $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ is balanced. ^thm-polygon-sofa-connected

Then we show that a sequence of the balanced polygons $\mathcal{I}_\Theta$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-polygon-sofa-connected]] converge to a monotone sofa attaining the maximum area in the fixed rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$.

> __Theorem [maximum-area-polygon-limit].__ (abriged; see [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum-area Sofa#^thm-balanced-maximum-area-sofa]] for the full statement.) For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, there exists a monotone sofa $S_\omega$ attaining the maximum area among all moving sofas of rotation angle $\omega$ such that as $n \to \infty$, the finite set $\Theta_n \subset (0, \omega)$ gets denser in $[0, \omega]$ and a sequence $\mathcal{I}_{\Theta_n}$ of balanced polygons converge to $S_\omega$. ^thm-maximum-area-polygon-limit