We reproduce the argument of Gerver (p271 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]) for completeness.

> __Lemma [rotation-angle-simple-bound].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa of area $> 2.2$. Then $S$ admits a movement in $L$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (\sec^{-1}(2.2) , \pi/2]$. ^lem-rotation-angle-simple-bound

_Proof._ Assume any movement of $S$ inside $L$ with rotation angle $\omega \in \mathbb{R}$.

If $\omega \leq -\pi/4$, then by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa#^pro-moving-sofa-common-subset]] a translation of $S$ is a common subset of $H$ and $L_{-\pi/4}$, where $L_{-\pi/4}$ is a translation of $R_{-\pi/4}(L)$. The intersection of $H$ and $L_{-\pi/4}$ has area $\sqrt{2} = 1.4142\dots$ always, contradicting $|S| > 2.2$. If $|\omega| \leq \sec^{-1}(2.2)$, then by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa#^pro-moving-sofa-common-subset]] a translation of $S$ is a common subset of $H$ and $V_\omega$. The intersection $H \cap V_\omega$ is then a parallelogram of area $\sec(\omega) \leq 2.2$, again contradicting $|S| > 2.2$. So we should have $\sec^{-1}(2.2) < \omega$.

Assume $\omega > \pi/2$, or otherwise we are done. We show that $S$ also admits another movement in $L$ with rotation angle $\pi/2$. Follow the movement of $S$ inside $L$ with rotation $\omega$ from the start, and stop in the middle where $S$ is rotated clockwise by exactly $\pi/2$. Call the copy of $S$ at this moment $S_{\pi/2}$. Translate $S_{\pi/2}$ horizontally in the positive direction of the $x$-axis, until it makes contact with the outer right wall $x=1$ of $L$. Since $S$ is initially in $L_H$, the width of $S_{\pi/2}$ measured along the $x$-axis is at most one. So after the additional horizontal translation, $S_{\pi/2}$ lies inside $L_V$ with the rotation angle of $\pi/2$. □

We establish [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]] by showing that the same sofa also admits another movement of rotation angle $\pi/2$.

> __Theorem [extend-rotation-angle].__ Let the angle $\omega \in (\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$ be arbitrary. Then there exists a monotone sofa $S$ with the rotation angle $\omega$ satisfying the following.
> 
> 1. $S$ attains the maximum area among all monotone sofas with the same rotation angle $\omega$.
> 2. $S$ admits another movement in $L$ with rotation angle $\pi/2$. ^thm-extend-rotation-angle

To prove [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Overview/03. Monotone Sofa#^thm-extend-rotation-angle]], we will find two 

The idea is to extend the original movement with rotation angle $\omega$. Initially, the monotone sofa $S$ is contained in the parallelogram $P_\omega = H \cap V_\omega$. Call the lower-left and the upper-right vertex of $P_\omega$ as $o_\omega$ and $O_\omega$. Define $\Delta_\omega$ as the subset of $P_\omega$ under the arc formed by the circle of radius 1 centered at $p_\omega$. from $p_\omega - u_\omega$ to $p_\omega - v_0$  If the small region $\Delta_\omega$ is disjoint from the moving sofa $S$, then we can rotate the translate of $S$ inside $L_H$ _counterclockwise_ by an angle of $\pi/2 - \omega$. Combine this movement with the movement of $S$ in $L$ to get a movement of $S$ with rotation angle $\pi/2$.

So how do we show that $\Delta_\omega$ is disjoint from $S$? We will show that there is some $t$ such that the inner corner $Q_K^-(t)$ contains the set $\Delta_\omega$. We will need to bound two values from below. First is the length $p_K(0)$ from the origin. Second is the length of the edge $e_K(\pi/2)$ with the normal vector $(0, 1)$. Now the points $q_1 = (p_K(0), 0)$ and $q_2 = o_\omega - \beta_K(\pi/2)$ are in $K$. The positive quadrant $Q_K^+(t)$ of the hallway $L_t$ should contain the two points $q_1$ and $q_2$. We find a proper value of $t$ so that the negative quadrant $Q_K^-(t)$ contains the set $\Delta_\omega$ all.

Bounding $q_1$, or letting $p_K(0) \geq 1.1$ is sufficient by using symmetry argument. However, bounding the edge length $e_K(\pi/2)$ from below . The rightmost point $q_0$ of $S$ on the line $y=0$. The leftmost point $q_1$ of $S$ on the line $y=1$.