This paper is a part of an attempt towards the full Gerver's conjecture that Gerver's sofa indeed attains the maximum area. Here, we briefly outline our future plan including a strategy for the proof of injectivity theorem.

# Finite-dimensional Upper bound $\mathcal{A}_{\Theta}$

We have observed that a maximum sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ can be assumed to be monotone. So $S$ is an intersection of the parallelogram $P_\omega$ and the tangent hallways $L_K(t)$ determined by the inner corners $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ for $t \in [0, \omega]$. Here, $K \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ is the cap of $S$. A conceptually simple upper bound of the area $\mathcal{A}(K)$ of $S$ is to take the intersection of only a finite number of the tangent hallways $L_K(t)$.

Fix a finite partition $\Theta$
$$0 = \theta_0 < \theta_1 < \theta_2 < \cdots < \theta_n = \pi/2$$
of the interval $[0, \pi/2]$. Let $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ be the area of the polygon $S_\Theta = H \cap \bigcap_{i \in 0}^n L_K(\theta_i)$ which is the intersection of horizontal strip $H$ and the finite hallways rotated by angles in $\Theta$. Then $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ is an upper bound of $\mathcal{A}$. Moreover, the polygon $S_\Theta$ and its area $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ are completely determined by the inner corners $\mathbf{x}_i = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_i)$ of the finite hallways $L_i = L_K(\theta_i)$ for $0 \leq i \leq n$. So the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K)$ is computable. Indeed, in a sense the program `SofaBounds` developed by [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]] calculates an upper estimate of the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ to generate an upper bound of the sofa area $S$.

We have developed a software named `SofaDesigner` that computes the finite-dimensional upper bound $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ exactly. The main observation we make is that, once the order of the edges in the niche of the polygon $S_\Theta$ is determined, the area of $S_\Theta$ becomes a quadratic polynomial of the coordinates $\mathbf{x} = (\mathbf{x}_0, \dots, \mathbf{x}_n)$ of the hallways. The software `SofaDesigner` uses a branch-and-bound algorithm to divide the domain of coordinates $\mathbf{x}$ into disjoint polytope pieces $P_1, \dots, P_N$. For each polygonal piece $P_i$, the niche of $S_\Theta$ has a fixed order of edges, so there is a single quadratic formula $f_i$ of $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ for $P_i$. `SofaDesigner` uses exact quadratic programming algorithm to compute the maximum value of $f_i$ for each piece $P_i$, and discards a piece early when the upper bound is less than the area of Gerver's sofa. 

`SofaDesigner` is capable of finding sufficiently good lower/upper bounds of an arbitrary linear combination $L$ of the locations $\mathbf{x} = (\mathbf{x}_0, \dots, \mathbf{x}_n)$ of the finite hallways rotated by angles in $\Theta$. To show that the linear functional $L$ on $(\mathbf{x}_0, \dots, \mathbf{x}_n)$ has an lower bound of $C$, `SofaDesigner` proceeds by the method of contradiction. For each piece $P_i$, we add the opposite constraint $L \leq C$ and find the maximum of $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) = f_i$ using quadatic programming. If the value of $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ is less than the area of Gerver's sofa, then as $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ is an upper estimate of the sofa area we have shown that there is no possibility that the sofa attains the maximum area.

# Proving Injectivity Hypothesis

We now sketch a strategy for proving the injectivity hypothesis using `SofaDesigner`. 

Instead of proving injectivity on the whole interval, let us first focus on proving the injectivity theorem on a smaller interval $t \in [\theta_1, \theta_2]$, say $\theta_1 = 40^\circ$ and $\theta_2 = 50^\circ$  (note that the actual constants that will be used in the final proof will be different). For this interval, it suffices to show that $\mathbf{x}'(t) \cdot (-1, 0) > 0$. By using [[03. Area Functional on Space of Caps#^thm-inner-corner-deriv]] this is equivalent to showing the following. 
$$
-(g_K^+(t) - 1) u_t \cdot (-1, 0) + (h_K^+(t) - 1) v_t \cdot (-1, 0) > 0
$$

The value of $g^+_K(t)$ can be effectively bounded by 
There is an effective bound that uses $g_K(t_1, t_2)$ so that this can be shown effectively. 

It turns out that this strategy is successful only when $t$ is not close to $0$ or $\pi/2$. This is because the estimates of arm lengths $g_K^+(t)$ and $h_K^+(t)$ gets much worse . To circumvent this problem, we show that there is a  in the spirit [[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]]. Gerver observed that the maximum-area intersection of the horizontal strip and a finite number of rotated hallways is a _balanced polygon_. That is, for any angle $t \in S^1$ the sum of the lengths of edges with normal vector $u_t$ is equal to the sum of the lengths of edges facing the parallel, opposite direction $-u_t$. We use this to 

Essentially, a sofa is the intersection of a finite number of rotated hallways. SofaDesigner solves all possible combinations of such hallways. 

More technically, we do this this that.

using monotonicity, we can bound the derivative effectively with some bounded number.

it turns out that it is much harder for angles near 0 and 90. the main reason is that up to hausdorff measure, the value can change drastically. For this we need to show that everything is balanced. While Gerver showed this in setting of polygons, we prove it in the setup of hallways. 

