> __Definition [niche-gap].__ Let $K$ be a cap with a finite angle set $\Theta$ of size $\geq 3$ and rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Define the following values that we will call the _niche gaps_ of $K$. ^def-niche-gap
$$
w_K^\circ = \min_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}  } w_K(t) \qquad
z_K^\circ = \min_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}  } z_K(t)
$$
> Define $W_K^\circ = A^-_K(0) - w_K^\circ u_0$ and $Z_K^\circ = C^+_K(\omega) - z_K^\circ v_\omega$ 

[[15. Monotone Sofas/15. Sofa Area Functional#^lem-wedge-ends-in-cap]] implies the following.

> __Corollary [niche-gap-nonnegative].__ For any cap $K$ with a finite angle set, we have $w_K^\circ, z_K^\circ \geq 0$. Consequently, the line segment connecting $W_K^\circ$ and $A_K^-(0)$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$. Likewise, the line segment connecting $Z_K^\circ$ and $C^+_K(\omega)$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$. ^cor-niche-gap-nonnegative

[[@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]] deployed a condition called _balanceness_ of polygon to derive Gerver's sofa. Here, we prove a variant of this balanceness principle that is adapted to our area functional $\mathcal{A}$. 

> __Theorem [monotone-balancedness].__ Let $\Theta$ be a finite angle set with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Assume that $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ maximizes the area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$. Let $s_u = \beta_K(\left\{ \pi/2 \right\})$ and $s_r = \beta_K(\left\{ \omega \right\})$ be the side lengths of $K$ of the edges with one endpoint in $p_\omega$. Then the following should hold. ^thm-monotone-balancedness
> 
> - If $\omega < \pi/2$, then it should be that $w_K^\circ \leq s_u$ and $z_K^\circ \leq s_r$.
> - If $\omega = \pi/2$, then it should be that $w_K^\circ + z_K^\circ \leq s_u = s_r$.

What [[04. Limiting Theorem#^thm-monotone-balancedness]] essentially does is to compare two sums of sides of $\mathcal{M}(K)$, each contributed by the upper and lower boundary of $H$. Note that $\mathcal{M}(K)$ is essentially an intersection of $H$, $R_\omega(V)$ and the rotating hallways of angles in $\Theta$. If the lower side of $H$ contributes more to the boundary of $\mathcal{M}(K)$ than , then we can move $H$ slightly in the direction of $v_0$ to increase the area of $\mathcal{M}(K)$. The details for proving [[04. Limiting Theorem#^thm-monotone-balancedness]] is a bit more delicate, for which the rest of this section is dedicated to.

We start by enlarging the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ a little bit.

> __Definition [cap-translate-space].__ For any angle set $\Theta$ and rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define $\mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ as the collection of all translates of caps $K$ in $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$. ^def-cap-translate-space

> __Proposition [cap-translate-space].__ A set $K'$ is in $\mathcal{K}'_{\Theta}$ if and only if $K'$ have normal angles in $\Theta \cup (\Theta + \pi/2) \cup \left\{ \pi + \omega, 3\pi/2 \right\}$ and the width $p_K(\omega) + p_K(\omega + \pi)$ and $p_K(\pi/2) + p_K(3\pi/2)$ measured in the directions $u_\omega$ and $v_0$ respectively are all 1. ^pro-cap-translate-space

We can extend the notion of the _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of a cap $K$ to all translates of $K$.

> __Definition [cap-translate-niche].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ be arbitary. Define $F_K$ as the fan $H_K(\pi + \omega) \cap H_K(3\pi/2)$. Let $\mathcal{N}(K)$ be the intersection defined as the following. ^def-cap-translate-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) = F_K \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q^-_K(t)
$$

Note that if $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$, then we have $F_K = F_\omega$ so [[04. Limiting Theorem#^def-cap-translate-niche]] agrees with [[10. Monotonization#^def-niche]], justifying the same notion $\mathcal{N}(K)$ used in [[04. Limiting Theorem#^def-cap-translate-niche]].

> __Proposition [cap-translate-niche].__ For every $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ and vector $\mathbf{v} \in \mathbb{R}^2$, we have $\mathcal{N}(K + \mathbf{v}) = \mathcal{N}(K) + \mathbf{v}$. ^pro-cap-translate-niche

> __Lemma [niche-is-minimal].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ be arbitary. Let $\mathbf{x} : \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be an arbitrary collection of vectors assigned for each $t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}$, such that $K \subseteq R_t(Q^+) + \mathbf{x}(t)$ for all $t$. Then we always have the followings. ^lem-niche-is-minimal
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) \subseteq F_K \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} \left( R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)
$$

- Left side of $b_K(t)$ and the line segment connecting $W_K(t)$, $A^-_K(0)$ are disjoint.
- $T_K(t)$ and the line segment connecting $W_K(t)$, $A^-_K(0)$ are disjoint. 
- So line segment connecting $W_K^\circ$ and $A^-_K(0)$ is disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$. 
- If $\omega = \pi/2$
	- IF $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is nonempty, then the segments on A and C are disjoint from $\mathcal{N}(K)$. So turns out that 
	- IF $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is empty, then $\mathcal{A}(K)$ can't be maximum.
- If $\omega < \pi/2$, then we are done with above.

Define $N = \mathcal{N}(K)$. Let $\mathbf{x} : \Theta \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be an arbitrary map. Define a convex set $K'$ and a set $N'$ which depends on $\mathbf{x}$ as the following.

$$
K' = (H + \mathbf{x}(0)) \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\} } (R_t(L) + \mathbf{x}(t)) \cap (R_\omega(H) + \mathbf{x}(\omega))
$$
$$
N' = F_K \cap \bigcup_{t \in \Theta} \left( R_t(Q^-) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)
$$

If $\mathbf{x} = \mathbf{x}_K$, then $K' = K$. The idea is to fix $\mathbf{x}(t) = \mathbf{x}_K(t)$ for every $t \in \Theta \setminus \left\{ 0, \omega \right\}$ and adjust $\mathbf{x}(0)$ and $\mathbf{x}(\omega)$ slightly, so that $K' \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta'$ and $\mathcal{A}(K')$ is slightly larger than $\mathcal{A}(K)$. Let $\mathbf{x}(0) = \mathbf{x}_K(0) - \epsilon_0 v_0$ and $\mathbf{x}(\omega) = \mathbf{x}_K(\omega) - \epsilon_\omega u_\omega$ for sufficiently small and arbitrary $\epsilon_0, \epsilon_\omega \geq 0$. 

As we adjust $\mathbf{x}(0)$ and $\mathbf{x}(\omega)$ slightly, there is a change in the area of $K'$ and $N'$. Let $s_u = \beta_K(\left\{ \pi/2 \right\})$, $s_r = \beta_K(\left\{ \omega \right\})$, $s_d = \beta_K\left( \left\{ 3\pi/2 \right\} \right)$ and $s_l = \beta_K\left( \left\{ \pi + \omega \right\} \right)$ be the four side lengths of $K$. As the stripes $H + \mathbf{x}(0)$ and $R_\omega(V) + \mathbf{x}(\omega)$ translates, the upper (resp. lower) side of $H + \mathbf{x}(0)$ contribute an area decrement (resp. increment) of $\epsilon_0 s_u$ (resp. $\epsilon_0 s_d$) in $K'$, and similarly the upper (resp. lower) side of $R_\omega(V) + \mathbf{x}(\omega)$ contribute area decrement (resp. increment) of $\epsilon_\omega s_r$ (resp. $\epsilon_\omega s_l$) in $K'$. Summing up, we have the following change in the area of $K'$.
$$
|K'| = |K| - \epsilon_0 (s_u - s_d) - \epsilon_{\omega} (s_r - s_l) + O(\max(\epsilon_0^2, \epsilon_\omega^2))
$$
Denote the one-dimensional Hausdorff measure of $\mathbb{R}^2$ as $H^1$, so that if $X$ is a disjoint union of line segments in $\mathbb{R}^2$ then $H^1(X)$ is the sum of all lengths of the line segments. Let $n_d = H^1(N \cap l_K(3\pi/2))$ and $n_l = H^1 \left( N \cap l_K(\pi + \omega) \right)$ be the total sum of the sides of $N$ on the lines $l_K(3\pi/2)$ and $l_K(\pi + \omega)$ respectively. Then we have the following change in the area of $N$.
$$
|N'| = |N| + \epsilon_0 n_d + \epsilon_\omega n_l 
$$

We have the following inequalities. 
- If $\omega < \pi/2$, then $w_K + n_d \leq s_d$ because $N \cap l_K(3\pi/2)$ and the line segment connecting $W_K(t)$ and $A_K^-(0)$ are disjoint. Likewise, we have $z_K + n_r \leq s_r$.
- If $\omega = \pi/2$, then $n_d = n_r$, $s_d = s_r$, and $w_K + n_d + z_K \leq s_d$.

Note $w \leq s_d - n_d$ and $z \leq s_l - n_l$.

Some choices of $\epsilon_0$ and $\epsilon_\omega$ makes $K'$ not a proper member of $\mathcal{K}'_{\Theta}$ member because of width 1 condition. We choose $\epsilon_0$ and $\epsilon_\omega$ carefully so that $K'$ is a member of $\mathcal{K}'_{\Theta}$.
1. If $s_u > 0$, then setting $\epsilon_0 = 0$ and pushing only $\epsilon_\omega$ suffice.
2. If $s_r > 0$, then setting $\epsilon_\omega = 0$ and pushing only $\epsilon_0$ suffice.
3. If $s_u = s_r = 0$, then we should push $\epsilon_0 = \epsilon_\omega = \epsilon$ at the same pace. 
This will keep the condition.

Cases:
1. If $z > s_r$ but $w > s_u$, push according to 1
2. If $w > s_u$ but $z \leq s_r$, push according to 2
3. If $w > s_u$ AND $z > s_r$, push according to 3

In all three cases, we can make adjustment that makes $|K'| - |N'|$ larger. Now, it could be that $N'$ is not the niche of $K'$. But note that $\mathcal{N}(K')$ should be contained in $N'$.
