- [ ] Write an initial draft of this introduction.
	- [ ] Say that the _contact type_ determines the exact equality.
	- [ ] Our idea is to establish a differential _inequality_ that works regardless of contact types.
		- From now on, we assume the familiarity of Gerver's derivation of the moving sofa problem by [@romik].
		- We will bound $\sigma_K$ from above. That is, the side $\mathbf{A}'$. There might or might not be contributions from $\mathbf{B}$ or $\mathbf{x}$. $\left< \mathbf{A}'(t), u_t \right> \leq \left< -\mathbf{B}'(t), u_t \right> + \left| \left< \mathbf{x}'(t), u_t \right> \right|$
		- $\left| \mathbf{A}'(t) \right| \geq 1$ then it is guaranteed that $\mathbf{B}'(t)$ does not contribute.
		- $\left| \mathbf{A}'(t) \right| < 1$ then it may or may not 

The proof of the main [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/00. Preface#^thm-injectivity]] makes modification to the works of Gerver [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] and Romik [@romik]. We give an overview of their works and then explain our idea of the proof of [[02. Injectivity Condition of Maximum-area Sofas/20. Injectivity Condition/00. Preface#^thm-injectivity]].

We first recall the idea of Gerver that a maximum-area moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega = \pi/2$ should be _balanced_ (see [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa]] for further details). A moving sofa $S$ is essentially a connected intersection
$$
S := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_t
$$
of strips and hallways rotated counterclockwise by each angle $t \in [0, \omega]$. For a finite nonempty subset $\Theta$ of $(0, \omega)$, the discretized problem is to maximize the polygon intersection ^eqn-polygon
$$
S_\Theta := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} L_t
$$
instead. Theorem 1 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992], with its logical gaps in proof filled out as in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa]], states that as $\Theta$ gets denser in $[0, \omega]$, some sequence of maximal polygons $S_\Theta$ converge to some maximum-area moving sofa $S$. We call such a maximum-area $S$ _balanced_.

We can derive equalities on the side lengths of $S$ from the balancedness of $S$. While Gerver works directly with the sides of the polygons $S_\Theta$, this leads to somewhat complicated derivations. Instead, Romik observed that as we take the limit of $S_\Theta$, the balancedness condition of $S_\Theta$ can be expressed using ODEs involving _differential_ side lengths of $S$.

To give an example, assume that for some angle $t$ and its neighborhood, the rotated hallway $L_t$ makes contact with the maximum-area sofa $S$ at four points $\mathbf{A}(t), \mathbf{B}(t), \mathbf{C}(t), \mathbf{x}(t)$ as in Figure XX. Then the sides of $L_t$ parallel to the vector $v_t$ (thus with normal vector $u_t$) give the ODE () ^eqn-ode-example
$$
\left< \mathbf{A}'(t) , v_t \right> = \left< - \mathbf{C}'(t), v_t \right> + \left< \mathbf{x}'(t), v_t \right>  .
$$
In [@romik], Romik gives a streamlined derivation of Gerver's sofa . The ODEs like [[#^eqn-ode-example]], unfortunately, depends on the assumption that the sofa $S$ exactly have the contact points . This prevents us from proving .

The set $\left\{ \mathbf{A}, \mathbf{B}, \mathbf{C}, \mathbf{x} \right\}$ of points in which $S$ meets $L_t$ is called the set $\Gamma_t$ of _contact points_ of $S$ by Romik [@romik]. The set $\Gamma_t$ 





[^which-idea-thm]: Theorem 1 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992], with its logical gaps in the proof identified and filled out by [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/00. Preface]].