# A new approach to the moving sofa problem

The _moving sofa problem_, first published by Leo Moser in 1966, asks for the connected shape with the largest area $\mu_{\text{max}}$ that can move around the right-angled corner of a hallway $L$ with unit width. The best bounds currently known on $\mu_{\max}$ are summarized as $\mu_G := 2.2195\ldots \leq \mu_{\max} \leq 2.37$. The lower bound $2.2195\ldots \leq \mu_{\max}$ comes from Gerver's sofa $S_G$ of area $\mu_G := 2.2195\ldots$ constructed in 1994, with 18 analytic curves and segments constituting the boundary. It is widely believed that Gerver's sofa $S_G$ attains the maximum area and the equality $\mu_{\max} = \mu_G$ holds at the lower bound, but there is no known proof. The upper bound $\mu_{\max} \leq 2.37$ was proved by Kallus and Romik in 2018 using extensive computer assistance. All known upper bounds on $\mu_{\max}$ including that of Kallus and Romik rely on a finite-dimensional upper bound approximating the sofa as a polygon.

This paper suggests a new method where the problem is viewed as an infinite-dimensional convex quadratic programming. Consequently, we prove that any moving sofa satisfying a property named as the _injectivity condition_ has an area at most $1 + \pi^2/8 = 2.2337\dots$. The new bound does not rely on any computer assistance, yet is much closer to the lower bound $2.2195\ldots$ of Gerver than the computer-assisted upper bound $2.37$ of Kallus and Romik. Since Gerver's sofa $S_G$ and its perturbations satisfy the injectivity condition, the conditional upper bound is valid on a domain containing the conjectured optimal sofa $S_G$ and its neighborhood. We also conjecture the _injectivity hypothesis_ that a maximum-area moving sofa satisfies the injectivity condition. With our result, proving the injectivity hypothesis would imply the unconditional upper bound $\mu_{\max} \leq 1 + \pi^2/8 = 2.2337\ldots$.

As a new approach towards the moving sofa problem, the proof recasts 

defines a new upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$ which is a quadratic functional on convex bodies and

The new approach that the proof takes is to interpret the moving sofa problem as the maximization of a quadratic functional on convex bodies. Our methodology employs Mamikon's theorem and the Brunn-Minkowski theory on convex bodies. We also conjecture the _injectivity hypothesis_, suggesting the existence of a maximum-area moving sofa that satisfies the injectivity condition. If this hypothesis holds, it would imply the upper bound $\mu_{\max} \leq 1 + \pi^2/8 \approx 2.2337$.


Along the way, we also make modest contributions to the analysis on convex bodies. We give a version of Mamikon's theorem generalized to  


Want the reader, referee, and editor to focus on your method, rather than merely on your bound.
I worry that, with the current title, an editor or referee might instinctively focus on how close your bound is to Gerver's, and on the fact that it is only proved for a subset of all sofas.
When viewed solely in those terms, your work doesn't sound as impressive as when it is viewed as a new method which, for the first time, introduces serious mathematical structure into the problem, which already yields an improved upper bound (albeit for a subset of all sofas) and also provides new directions for approaching the problem.

Anyway, this is just a random thought.  On a related note, I like section 1.3 of your thesis a lot, since you quickly convey some of the key ideas and ingredients in your proofs.  So, someone who reads that section will see that you introduced a lot of new ideas and tools to the topic.