# Abstract

The _moving sofa problem_, first published by Leo Moser in 1966, asks for the connected shape with the largest area $\mu_{\text{max}}$ that can move around the right-angled corner of a hallway $L$ with unit width. The best bounds currently known on $\mu_{\max}$ are summarized as $\mu_G := 2.2195\ldots \leq \mu_{\max} \leq 2.37$. The lower bound $2.2195\ldots \leq \mu_{\max}$ comes from Gerver's sofa $S_G$ of area $\mu_G := 2.2195\ldots$ constructed in 1994, with 18 analytic curves and segments constituting the boundary. The upper bound $\mu_{\max} \leq 2.37$ was proved by Kallus and Romik in 2018 using extensive computer assistance. It is conjectured that the equality $\mu_{\max} = \mu_G$ holds at the lower bound, but there is no known proof. All known upper bounds on $\mu_{\max}$, including that of Kallus and Romik, are established by approximating the moving sofa with a polygonal intersection.

We give a new approach to the moving sofa problem, interpreting it as an infinite-dimensional convex quadratic optimization problem. Consequently, we prove that any moving sofa satisfying a property named as the _injectivity condition_ has an area at most $1 + \pi^2/8 = 2.2337\dots$. The new bound does not rely on any computer assistance, yet is much closer to the lower bound $2.2195\ldots$ of Gerver than the computer-assisted upper bound $2.37$ of Kallus and Romik. Since Gerver's sofa $S_G$ satisfies the injectivity condition, the conditional upper bound is effective on a domain containing the conjectured optimal sofa $S_G$. We also conjecture the _injectivity hypothesis_ that a maximum-area moving sofa satisfies the injectivity condition. With our result, proving the injectivity hypothesis would imply the unconditional upper bound $\mu_{\max} \leq 1 + \pi^2/8 = 2.2337\ldots$.

# Acknowledgements

The author is indebted to Dan Romik for thorough discussions during the research and for thoughtful feedback on the draft, which made the presentation much more organized and clear. I am also grateful to Joseph Gerver, Thomas Hales, Jeffrey Lagarias, and David Speyer for their useful discussions. The author acknowledges support from the Korea Foundation for Advanced Studies during the completion of this research.