Define the _arm lengths_ $f_K^{\pm}(t)$ and $g_K^{\pm}(t)$ of tangent hallways of a cap $K$ as the following.

> __Definition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and $t \in [0, \omega]$ be arbitrary. Define ^def-cap-tangent-arm-length
$$
f_K^+(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K(t) - A_K^+(t) \right) \cdot v_t \qquad f_K^-(t) = \left( \mathbf{y}_K - A_K^-(t) \right) \cdot v_t
$$
> and
$$
g_K^+(t) = (\mathbf{y}_K(t) - C_K^+(t)) \cdot u_t \qquad g_K^+(t) = (\mathbf{y}_K(t) - C_K^+(t)) \cdot u_t.
$$

Observe that the point $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and the vertices $A_K^{\pm}(t)$ are on the tangent line $a_K(t)$ in the direction of $v_t$. Likewise $\mathbf{y}_K(t)$ and $C_K^{\pm}(t)$ are on the tangent line $c_K(t)$ in the direction of $u_t$. So we have the following equations.

> __Proposition [cap-tangent-arm-length].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}^\mathrm{c}$ and $t \in [0, \omega]$ be arbitrary. Then we have $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = A^{\pm}_K(t) + f_K^{\pm}(t) v_t$ and $\mathbf{y}_K(t) = C^{\pm}_K(t) + g_K^{\pm}(t) u_t$. ^pro-cap-tangent-arm-length

> __Theorem [arm-length-differentiation].__ For any $K \in \mathcal{K}$, the function $f^+_K(t)$ of $t \in (0, \pi/2]$ is right-differentiable and of bounded variation. Moreover, its Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure is ^thm-arm-length-differentiation
$$
\textrm{d} f_K^+(t) = g_K^+(t)\, \textrm{d} t - \sigma_K
$$
> where $f_K^+(t), g_K^+(t), t$ are functions of $t \in (0, \pi/2]$, so that $\textrm{d} t$ denotes the usual Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of $(0, \pi/2]$.

_Proof._ First evaluate
$$
\begin{align*}
\textrm{d} p_K(t) & = \textrm{d} (v_K^+(t) \cdot u_t) = u_t \cdot \textrm{d} v_K^+(t) + v_K^+(t) \cdot \textrm{d} u_t \\
& = u_t \cdot (v_t \sigma_K) + (v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t) \textrm{d} t = (v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t) \textrm{d} t
\end{align*}
$$
for all $t \in (0, \pi]$ using the product rule ([[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/15. Convex Bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]) and [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/15. Convex Bodies/10. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]].

Now take the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of
$$
f_K(t) = p_K(\pi/2 + t) - v_K^+(t) \cdot v_t
$$
for all $t \in (0, \pi/2]$ using the product rule ([[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/15. Convex Bodies/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]) and [[b. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/15. Convex Bodies/10. Surface Area Measure#^thm-boundary-measure]] to get
$$
\begin{align*}
\textrm{d} f_K^+(t) & = \textrm{d} p_K(\pi/2 + t) - v_t \cdot \textrm{d} v_K^+(t) - v_K^+(t) \cdot \textrm{d} v_t \\
& = (v_K^+(\pi/2 + t) \cdot v_{\pi/2 + t}) \textrm{d} t - v_t \cdot (v_t \sigma_K) + v_K^+(t) \cdot u_t \textrm{d} t \\
& = - \sigma_K + (- v_K^+(\pi/2 + t) \cdot u_t + p_K(t)) \textrm{d} t
= g_K(t) \textrm{d} t - \sigma_K
\end{align*}
$$
which completes the proof.□