If $K$ has nonempty interior, it occurs naturally that the boundary $\partial K$ is a Jordan curve bounding $K$ in its interior. So for any different $p, q \in \partial K$, we can think of the Jordan arc $\mathbf{e}$ connecting $p$ and $q$ along the boundary $\partial K$ in counterclockwise direction. However, to rigorously justify that the curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{e})$ of $\mathbf{e}$ is well-defined and relates to the surface area measure $\sigma_K$ ([[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]]), we need to contruct an explicit rectifiable parametrization of $\mathbf{e}$ which requires some work.

For every $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$, we will define $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ as essentially the arc-length parametrization of the curve connecting $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ along the boundary $\partial K$ counterclockwise. The full [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-boundary-segment-parametrization]] of $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is technical will be given much later. Instead, we start by stating the properties $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ that agrees with our intuition that we will prove rigorously. Note that in the theorems below we allow $K$ to have empty interior.

> __Theorem [param-segment].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Then $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is an arc-length parametrization of the $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \bigcup \cup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$ from point $v_K^+(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_2)$. ^thm-param-segment

> __Theorem [param-segment-length].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Then the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ have length $\sigma_K((t_0, t_1])$. ^thm-param-segment-length

> __Theorem [param-concatenation].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0, t_1, t_2$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 \leq t_0 + 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_2]}$ is the concatenation of $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_1]}$ and $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_1, t_2]}$. ^thm-param-concatenation

> __Theorem [param-curve-area-functional].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Then the curve area functional of $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ can be represented in two different ways: ^thm-param-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_1]} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{(t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\sigma_K(dt) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{(t_0, t_1]} v_K^+(t) \times d v_K^+(t)
$$

> __Theorem [param-positive-area].__ For every $t \in \mathbb{R}$, we have $|K| = \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi} \right)$.  ^thm-param-positive-area

_Proof._ This is a corollary of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-measure-area]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]]. □

We will also show that $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is one of: a Jordan arc, a Jordan curve, or a single point ([[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-param-positive-jordan]]). We first recall the difference between a Jordan arc and curve (p170 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]).

> __Definition [jordan-curve].__ A _Jordan curve_ is a curve parametrized by continuous $\mathbf{e} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ such that $a<b$, $\mathbf{e}(a) = \mathbf{e}(b)$ and $\mathbf{e}$ being injective on $[a, b)$. ^def-jordan-curve

> __Definition [jordan-arc].__ A _Jordan arc_ is a curve parametrized by continuous and injective $\mathbf{e} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ such that $a<b$. ^def-jordan-arc

In order for $\partial K$ to be a Jordan curve, $K$ has to have nonempty interior. For the notion of the orientation of a Jordan curve, we refer to p170 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]. The following theorem shows that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is the unique parametrization of $\partial K$ as a positively-oriented Jordan curve with $v_K^+(t)$ as its endpoints.

> __Theorem [param-positive-jordan].__ Assume that $K$ have nonempty interior. For every $t \in \mathbb{R}$, the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is a positively oriented arc-length parametrization of the boundary $\partial K$ as a Jordan curve that starts and ends with the point $v_K^+(t)$. ^thm-param-positive-jordan

Now the following is a corollary of [[#^thm-param-concatenation]] and [[#^thm-param-positive-jordan]].

> __Corollary [param-positive-jordan].__ Assume that $K$ have nonempty interior. Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Then $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is one of: a Jordan arc, a Jordan curve, or a single point. ^cor-param-positive-jordan

# Definition of Parametrization

> __Definition [convex-body-perimeter].__ Denote the _perimeter_ of $K$ as $B_K = \sigma_K\left( S^1 \right)$. ^def-convex-body-perimeter

Fix an arbitrary convex body $K$ and the starting angle $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$. Our goal to construct an arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of the boundary $\partial K$ starting with the point $v_K^+(t_0)$. Take an arbitrary point $p$ on the boundary $\partial K$. Let $s \in [0, B_K]$ be the arc length from $v_K^+(t_0)$ to $p$ along $\partial K$, so that we want $p = \mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(s)$ in the end. As $p$ is in $\partial K$, it is inside the tangent line $l_K(t)$ for some angle $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Now the arc length $s \in [0, B_K]$ and the tangent line angle $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ are the two different variables attached to $p \in \partial K$.
 
Unfortunately, the relation between $s$ and $t$ cannot be simply described as a function from one to another. A single value of $s$ may correspond to multiple values of $t$ (if $p$ is a sharp corner of angle $< \pi$), and likewise a single value of $t$ may correspond to multiple values of $s$ (if $p$ is on the edge $e_K(t)$ which is a proper line segment). We need the language of generalized inverse (e.g. [@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]) to describe the relationship between $s$ and $t$.

The map $f_K^{t_0}$ is defined so that it sends $t$ to the largest possible corresponding $s$.

> __Definition [conversion-ts].__ Define $f_K^{t_0} :[t_0, t_0 + 2\pi] \to [0, B_K]$ as $g_{K}^{t_0}(t) = \sigma_K\left( (t_0, t] \right)$. ^def-conversion-ts

The map $f_K^{t_0}$ is defined so that sends $s$ to the smallest possible corresponding $t$.

> __Definition [conversion-st].__ Define $f_K^{t_0} : [0, B_K] \to [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ as $f_K^{t_0}(s) = \min \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \sigma_K((t_0, t]) \geq s \right\}$. ^def-conversion-st

It is rudimentary to check that $f_K^{t_0}$ is well-defined. We remark that $f_K^{t_0}$ is the minimum inverse $f_K^{t_0\wedge}$ of $f_K^{t_0}$ as defined in [@fortelleStudyGeneralizedInverses]. Note the following.

> __Proposition [conversion-monotone].__ The functions $f_K^{t_0}$ and $g_{K}^{t_0}$ are monotonically increasing. ^pro-conversion-monotone

_Proof._ That $f_K^{t_0}(t)$ is increasing is immediate from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-conversion-ts]]. For any $t_1 < t_2$, observe
$$
\left\{ t_1 \geq t_0 : \sigma_K((t_0, t]) \geq s \right\} \subseteq \left\{ t_2 \geq t_0 : \sigma_K((t_0, t]) \geq s \right\}
$$
so by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-conversion-st]] we have $f_K^{t_0}(t_1) \leq f_K^{t_0}(t_2)$. □

The following can be checked using [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-conversion-st]].

> __Proposition [conversion-st-nonzero].__ We have $f_K^{t_0}(0) = t_0$ and $f_K^{t_0}(s) > t_0$ for all $s > 0$. ^pro-conversion-st-nonzero

_Proof._ That $f_K^{t_0}(0) = t_0$ is immediate from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-conversion-st]]. If $s > 0$, then any $t \geq t_0$ satisfying $\sigma_K((t_0, t]) \geq s$ has to satisfy $t > t_0$, so we have $f_K^{t_0}(s) > t_0$. □

We will often write $f_K^{t_0}$ and $f_K^{t_0}$ as simply $f$ and $g$ in proofs because our $K$ and $t_0$ are fixed. With the converstions between $s$ and $t$ prepared ($f$ maps $s$ to $t$, and $g$ maps $t$ to $s$), the path $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}$ can be defined by integrating the unit vector $u_t$ for each $s$.

> __Definition [parametrization-formal].__ Define $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the absolutely continuous (and thus rectifiable) function with the initial condition $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(0) = v_K^+(t_0)$ and the derivative $\left(\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}\right)'(s) = v_{f_K^{t_0}(s)}$ almost everywhere. That is: ^def-parametrization-formal
$$
\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(s) := v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, s]} v_{f_K^{t_0}(s')} \, ds'
$$

Note that the function $f_{K}^{t_0}$ is monotonically increasing, so the integral in [[#^def-parametrization-formal]] is well-defined.

> __Proposition [parametrization-arc-length].__ The function $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} : [0, B_K] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is an arc-length parametrization. ^pro-parametrization-arc-length

_Proof._ Length of an absolutely continuous curve $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is the integral of $| | \mathbf{x}'(s) | |$ from $s=a$ to $s=b$ [@jones2001lebesgue]. For $\mathbf{x} = \mathbf{e}_K^{t_0}$, we have $| | \mathbf{x}'(s) | | = 1$ for almost every $s$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-parametrization-formal]], thus completing the proof. □

We define $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ as an initial segment of $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0}$ that ends with $v_K^+(t_1)$.

> __Definition [boundary-segment-parametrization].__ For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, define $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_1]}$ as the curve $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (s)$ restricted on the interval $s \in [0, g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1)]$. ^def-boundary-segment-parametrization

# Theorems on Parametrization

We now show that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0}$ does parametrize our boundary $\partial K$ as intended. We prepare three technical lemmas that handle conversions between $s$ and $t$.

> __Lemma [parametrization-set-calculation].__ The followings hold. ^lem-parametrization-set-calculation
> 
> 1. For any $t_1 \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$, we have $\left(f_{K}^{t_0}\right)^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) = [0, \sigma_K\left( (t_0, t_1] \right)] = [0, g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1)]$.
> 2. Moreover, the set $\left( f_{K}^{t_0} \right)^{-1} (\left\{ t_1 \right\})$ is either $[g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1-), g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1)]$ or $(g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1-), g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1)]$.

_Proof._ Write $f_K^{t_0}$ and $f_K^{t_0}$ as simply $f$ and $g$. The first statement comes from manipulating the definitions as the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
f^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) & = \left\{ s \in [0, B_K] : \min \left\{ t \geq t_0 : \sigma_K\left( (t_0, t] \right) \geq s \right\} \in [t_0, t_1] \right\} \\
& = \left\{ s \in [0, B_K] :  \sigma\left( (t_0, t_1] \right) \geq s \right\} \\
& = [0, \sigma_K((t_0, t_1])] = [0, g(t_1)]
\end{align*}
$$
Now send $t \to t_1^-$ in the equality $f^{-1}([t_0, t]) = [0, g(t)]$ to obtain that $f^{-1}([t_0, t_1)) = \bigcup_{t < t_1} [0, g(t)]$ is either $[0, g(t_1-))$ or $[0, g(t_1-)]$. Then use $f^{-1} (\left\{ t_1 \right\}) = f^{-1}([t_0, t_1]) \setminus f^{-1}([t_0, t_1))$ to get the second statement. □

> __Lemma [parametrization-pushforward].__ The measure $\sigma_K$ on $(t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ is the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure on $(0, B_K]$ with respect to the map $f_{K}^{t_0} : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ restricted to $(0, B_K]$. ^lem-parametrization-pushforward

_Proof._ Write $f_K^{t_0}$ as $f$. Observe that $f$ restricted to $(0, B_K]$ has range in $(t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^pro-conversion-st-nonzero]]. The first statement of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]] then shows that the measure $\sigma_K$ on $(t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ and the pushforward of the Lebesgue measure on $(0, B_K]$ with respect to $f : (0, B_K] \to (t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$ agree on every closed interval $(t_0, t]$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. □

> __Lemma [parametrization-vertex].__ $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(g_{K}^{t_0}(t)) = v_{K}^+(t)$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ and $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(g_{K}^{t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$. Moreover, for all $t \in (t_0, t_0 + 2\pi]$ the function $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}$ restricted to the interval $[g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1-), g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1)]$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$. ^lem-parametrization-vertex

_Proof._ Write $f_K^{t_0}$ and $f_K^{t_0}$ as simply $f$ and $g$. By [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-pushforward]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure]], we have the following calculation.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (g(t)) & = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in (0, g(t)]} v_{f(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{s' \in f^{-1}([t_0, t])} v_{f(s')} \, ds' \\
& = v_K^+(t_0) + \int_{t \in(t_0, t]} v_t \, \sigma(dt) = v^+_K(t)
\end{align*}
$$
For the proof of $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(g_{K}^{t_0}(t-)) = v_{K}^-(t)$, send $t' \to t^-$ in the equation $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(g_{K}^{t_0}(t')) = v_{K}^+(t')$ and use [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]. By the second statement of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]], the value $f(s')$ on the interval $s' \in (g(t-), g(t)]$ is always equal to $t$. So the derivative of $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0}(s')$ restricted to the interval $[g(t-), g(t)]$ is almost everywhere equal to $v_t$, and $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}$ is the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t)$ from vertex $v_K^-(t)$ to $v_K^+(t)$ on the interval $[g(t-), g(t)]$. □

We now prove the claimed theorems on $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$. That $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is injective will be proved later.

_Proof._ (of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-segment]]) Write $f_K^{t_0}$ and $f_K^{t_0}$ as simply $f$ and $g$. By [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]], the interval $[0, g(t_1)]$ is equal to the inverse image $f^{-1} ([t_0, t_1])$, and so is the disjoint union of the singleton $f^{-1} (\left\{ t_0 \right\}) = \left\{ 0 \right\}$ and the intervals $f ^{-1} (\left\{ t \right\})$ whose closure is $[g(t-), g(t)]$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$. Under the map $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}$, the singleton $\left\{ 0 \right\}$ maps to $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\}$ and the set $[g(t-), g(t)]$ maps to $e_K(t)$ for all $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ by [[#^lem-parametrization-vertex]]. This proves that the image of the interval $[0, g(t_1)]$ under the map $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}$ is the set $\left\{ v_K^+(t_0) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$. □

_Proof._ (of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-segment-length]]) This comes from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^pro-parametrization-arc-length]] and that the domain $[0, g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1)]$ of $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ has length $\sigma_K((t_0, t_1])$. □

_Proof._ (of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-concatenation]]) Write $f_K^{t_0}$ and $f_K^{t_0}$ as simply $f$ and $g$. The curve $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is an initial part of the curve $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0, t_2}$. So it remains to show that $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}$ restricted to the interval $[g(t_1), g(t_2)]$ is the same as $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_1}$ restricted to $[0, f_K^{t_1}(t_2)]$, with the domain shifted to right by $g(t_1)$. Observe $g(t_1) + f_K^{t_1}(t_2) = g(t_2)$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-conversion-ts]] and additivity of $\sigma_K$. The initial point of the two curves is equal to $v_K^+(t_1)$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-vertex]]. We show that the derivatives of $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}(t + g(t_1))$ and $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_1}(t)$ match for all $t \in [0, g(t_2) - g(t_1)]$. By [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-parametrization-formal]], we only need to check $f(t + g(t_1)) = f_K^{t_1} (t)$. This immediately follows from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-conversion-st]]. □

_Proof._ (of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]]) Write $f_K^{t_0}$ and $f_K^{t_0}$ as simply $f$ and $g$. Take any $s \in (0, g(t_1)]$ and let $t = f(s)$. Observe that by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^pro-conversion-st-nonzero]], we have $t \in (t_0, t_1]$ and $s$ is in $f^{-1}(\left\{ t \right\})$ which is either $(g(t_1 -), g(t_1)]$ or $[g(t_1 -), g(t_1)]$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]]. Then as $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (s) \in e_K(t)$ by [[#^lem-parametrization-vertex]], we have $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (s) \times v_{t} = p_K(t)$. So we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{e}_{K}^{(t_0, t_1]} \right) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s \in (0, g(t_1)]} \mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (s) \times v_{f(s)} \, ds \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{s \in f^{-1}((t_0, t_1])} p_K(f(s)) \, ds \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in(t_0, t_1]} p_K(t) \, \sigma(dt)
\end{align*}
$$
The first equality above uses [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-parametrization-formal]]. The second equality above uses [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]] and $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (s) \times v_{t} = p_K(t)$. The last equality above uses [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-pushforward]]. This proves the first equality stated in the theorem. To show the second stated equality, check $v_K(t) \times dv_K^+(t) = v_K^+(t) \times v_{t} \sigma_K(dt) = p_K(t) \sigma(dt)$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]]. □

# Injectivity of Parametrization

Proof of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-positive-jordan]] requires a bit of preparation. The boundary $\partial K$ is the union of all the edges.

> __Theorem [boundary-is-union-all-edges].__ Let $K$ be any convex body. Then the topological boundary $\partial K$ of $K$ as a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the union of all edges $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. ^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges

_Proof._ Let $E = \cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$. $E \subseteq \partial K$ comes from $E \subseteq K$ and that any point in $E$ is on some tangent line of $K$ so its neighborhood contains a point outside $K$. Now take any point $p \in \partial K$. As $K$ is closed we have $p \in K$. So $p \cdot u_t \leq p_K(t)$ for any $t \in S^1$. Assume that the equality does not hold for any $t \in S^1$. Then by compactness of $S^1$ and continuity of $p_K$ there is some $\epsilon > 0$ such that $\epsilon \leq p_K(t) - p\cdot u_t$ for any $t$. This implies that the ball of radius $\epsilon$ centered at $p$ is contained in $K$. This contradicts $p \in \partial K$. So it should be that there is some $t \in S^1$ such that $p \cdot u_t = p_K(t)$. That is, $p \in e_K(t)$. □

We define the following segment of $\partial K$ as well.

> __Definition [param-segment-open].__ For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, define $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0, t_1-}$ as the curve $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0} (s)$ restricted on the interval $s \in [0, g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1-)]$. ^def-param-segment-open

By [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-vertex]], the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0, t_1-}$ ends with the vertex $v_K^-(t_1)$. Moreover, we have the following corollary of the same [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-vertex]].

> __Corollary [param-segment-open].__ For any $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$, $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is the concatenation of $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0, t_1 - }$ and the arc-length parametrization of $e_K(t_1)$ from $v_K^-(t_1)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$. ^cor-param-segment-open

By [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-parametrization-formal]] we have $\left(\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0}\right)'(s) = u_{f_K^{t_0}(s)}$ for almost every $s$, and by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^pro-conversion-st-nonzero]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^lem-parametrization-set-calculation]] we have $t_0 < f_K^{t_0}(s) < t_1$ for every $0 < s < g_{K}^{t_0}(t_1-)$. Thus we have the following:

> __Corollary [param-segment-open-deriv].__ Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2 \pi]$. Then for almost every $s$, the derivative $\left( \mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0, t_1-} \right)'(s)$ is equal to $u_t$ for some $t \in (t_0, t_1)$. ^cor-param-segment-open-deriv

We use the following lemma to determine the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Lemma [orientation].__ Let $p$ and $q$ be two different points of $\mathbb{R}^2$. Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the closed half-planes separated by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. If a Jordan curve $J$ consists of the join of two arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$, where $\Gamma_0$ connects $p$ to $q$ inside $H_0$, and $\Gamma_1$ connects $q$ to $p$ inside $H_1$, then $J$ is positively oriented. ^lem-orientation

_Proof._ (sketch) We first show that it is safe to assume the case where $J$ only intersects $l$ at two points $p$ and $q$. Observe that $H_i$ has a deformation retract to some subset $S_i \subseteq H_i$ with $S_i \cap l = \left\{ p, q \right\}$ (push the three segments of $l \setminus \{p, q\}$ towards the interior of $H_i$). Using the retracts, we may continuously deform the arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$ inside $S_0$ and $S_1$ respectively without chainging the orientation of $J$. Now take any point $r$ inside the segment connecting $p$ and $q$. Continuously move a point $x$ inside $J$ in the orientation of $J$ starting with $x = p$. As $x$ moves along $\Gamma_0$ from $p$ to $q$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ increases by $\pi$. And as $x$ moves along $\Gamma_1$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ again increases by $\pi$. So the total increase in the argument of $x \in J$ is $2\pi$ and $J$ is positively oriented. □

Now we are ready to prove [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-positive-jordan]].

_Proof._ (of [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-positive-jordan]])

That $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is an arc-length parametrization of $\partial K$ comes from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-segment]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-boundary-is-union-all-edges]].

We now show that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is a Jordan curve. By [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-concatenation]] the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is the concatenation of two curves $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi}$ and $\mathbf{e}_K^{t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ connecting $p = v_{K}^+(t)$ and $q = v_K^+(t + \pi)$ and vice versa. As $K$ has nonempty interior, the width of $K$ measured in the direction of $u_t$ is strictly positive, and the point $p$ is strictly further than the point $q$ in the direction of $u_t$.

We first show that the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi}$ is a Jordan arc from $p$ to $q$. The curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi}$ is the join of the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi-}$ and $e_{K}(t + \pi)$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-param-segment-open]]. Also, by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-param-segment-open-deriv]], the derivative of $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi-}(s) \cdot u_t$ with respect to $s$ is strictly positive for almost every $s$, so the curve $\mathbf{e}_K$ is moving strictly in the direction of $-u_t$. This with the fact that $e_K(t + \pi)$ is parallel to $v_t$ shows that the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, t, t + \pi}$ is injective and thus a Jordan arc. A similar argument shows that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ is also a Jordan arc.

Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the half-planes divided by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. Observe that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi}$ (resp. $\mathbf{e}_K^{t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$) is in $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-segment]]. Let $\mathbf{e}$ be either of the curves $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi}$ or $\mathbf{e}_K^{t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$. Call the line segment connecting $p$ and $q$ as $pq$. Then $\mathbf{e}$ is either $pq$ (in case $\mathbf{e}$ passes through a point $r$ strictly on $pq$) or a curve connecting $p$ and $q$ through the interior of $H_0$ (or $H_1$). In any case, the curves $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + \pi}$ and $\mathbf{e}_K^{t + \pi, t + 2\pi}$ only overlap at the endpoints $p$ and $q$ because $K$ has nonempty interior, showing that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is a Jordan curve. That $\mathbf{e}_K^{t, t + 2\pi}$ is positively oriented is a consequence of [[#^lem-orientation]]. □

# Parametrization on Closed Interval

We define the closed-interval variant $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ of the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ as essentially the arc-length parametrization of the curve connecting $v_K^-(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ along the boundary $\partial K$ counterclockwise.

> __Definition [closed-param].__ For every $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$ define $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ as the concatenation of the arc-length parametrization of the edge $e_K(t_0)$ from $v_K^-(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$ and the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$. ^def-closed-param

This follows from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-segment]].

> __Corollary [closed-param-segment].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$. Then $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ is an arc-length parametrization of the set $\cup_{t \in [t_0, t_1]} e_K(t)$ from point $v_K^-(t_0)$ to $v_K^+(t_1)$. ^cor-closed-param-segment

This follows from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-segment-length]].

> __Corollary [closed-param-segment-length].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$. Then the curve $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ have length $\sigma_K([t_0, t_1])$. ^cor-closed-param-segment-length

This follows from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-concatenation]].

> __Corollary [closed-param-concatenation].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0, t_1, t_2$ such that $t_0 \leq t_1 \leq t_2 < t_0 + 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0-, t_2}$ is the concatenation of $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0-, t_1}$ and $\mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_1, t_2}$. ^cor-closed-param-concatenation

This follows from [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-surface-area-singleton]].

> __Corollary [closed-param-curve-area-functional].__ Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$. Then we have: ^cor-closed-param-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{e}_{K}^{t_0-, t_1} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{[t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\sigma_K(dt)
$$

> __Theorem [closed-param-positive-jordan].__ Assume that $K$ have nonempty interior. Assume arbitrary $t_0 \in \mathbb{R}$ and $t_1 \in [t_0, t_0 + 2\pi)$. Then $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ is one of: a Jordan arc, a Jordan curve, or a single point. ^thm-closed-param-positive-jordan

_Proof._ Take an arbitrary $t_{-1}$ so that $t_{-1} < t_0 \leq t_1 < t_{-1} + 2\pi$. Then $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_{-1}, t_1}$ is the concatenation of $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_{-1}, t_0-}$, $e_K(t_0)$, and $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-concatenation]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-param-segment-open]]. Then by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^def-closed-param]] the concatenation of $e_K(t_0)$, and $\mathbf{e}_K^{(t_0, t_1]}$ is $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$. Now by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^cor-param-positive-jordan]] and that $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_0-, t_1}$ is a part of $\mathbf{e}_K^{t_{-1}, t_1}$, we prove the theorem. □