Let $\Theta$ be a fixed, finite set of angles:
$$
0 = \theta_0 < \theta_1 < \theta_2 < \cdots < \theta_n = \pi/2
$$
Given the set $\Theta$ of angles as input, the task of `SofaDesigner` is to calculate a subset $\mathcal{S}$ of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ where the monotonization $S = \mathcal{M}_\Theta(K)$ has an area at least $2.2195\dots$.  That is, it effectively calculates a small domain $\mathcal{S}$ of sofas that traps a maximum sofa inside. Given a linear functional $f$ on $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$, `SofaDesigner` will be able to calculate an upper/lower bound of $f$ on $\mathcal{S}$. It will be used extensively to prove theorems like injectivity theorem.

%% TODO: The paragraph above can be made more clear %%

The space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is finite-dimensional. An $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ can be expressed in terms of any of the following coordinate systems.
- The support function values $p_i = p(\theta_i)$ on $\Theta$.
- The edge lengths $b_i = \beta_K(\left\{ \theta_i \right\}) \geq 0$ of the upper boundary of $\delta K$.
- The coordinates of the inner corners $\mathbf{x}_i = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_i)$.
Now each coordinate system constrainted by the following linear equalities and inequalities correspond one-to-one to the space $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$.
- 
$\mathcal{K}_\Theta^0$ is the normalized space.

Any $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is free to translate horizontally. With this, we assume $p_0 = 0$.

It often helps to denote a part of the sofa polygon simply by using index.

> __Definition [sofa-polygon-notations].__ Let the index $0 \leq i \leq n$ be taken arbitrary. Define the following notions for an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$. ^def-sofa-polygon-notations
> 
> - $p_i = p(\theta_i)$, $\mathbf{x}_i = \mathbf{x}_K(\theta_i)$, $\mathbf{y}_i = \mathbf{y}_K(\theta_i)$
> - Lines $a_i = a_K(\theta_i)$, $b_i = b_K(\theta_i)$, $c_i = c_K(\theta_i)$, $d_i = d_K(\theta_i)$.
> - With a bit of abuse of notation, we will also define $d_i = c_{n + i}$ for any negative index $-n \leq i < 0$ as well. In this way, the niche of $S$ is bounded by a polyline forming. Also, the slope of $d_i$ increases by the index $i$, and is positive when $i > 0$ and negative when $i < 0$. Define the normal vectors $v_i$ of $d_i$ including the negative vectors.
> - $A_0 = a_0 \cap l(0, \pi/2)$ and $A_i = a_{i} \cap a_{i-1}$ for $i > 0$.

All the terms we defined are expressed affine-linearly in terms of the coordinates of $K$. Moreover, the intersections of $d_i \cap d_j$ for $-n \leq i, j \leq n$ are expressible in affine-linear terms of $K$. 

Calculation:
$p_i$ $p_j$ $p_k$ $v_i$ $v_j$ $v_k$
When does the line $l_i = l(p_i, v_i)$ form cap or a cup?

$x \cdot v_i = p_i$
$x \cdot v_k = p_k$
Comparing $x \cdot v_j$ with $p_j$
$x = a u_i + b u_k$
$b (u_i \times u_k) = b (u_k \cdot v_i) = p_i$
$-a (u_i \times u_k) = a (u_i \cdot v_k) = p_k$
$x \cdot v_j = a(u_i \cdot v_j) + b (u_k \cdot v_j) = -a(u_i \times u_j) - b (u_k \times u_j) \leq p_j$

Equivalent to:
$p_k (u_i \times u_j) - p_i (u_k \times u_j) \leq p_j (u_i \times u_k)$
$p_k (u_i \times u_j) + p_i (u_i \times u_k) + p_j (u_i \times u_k) \leq 0$




TODO for above:
- What are the exact conditions for them to hold?
- How do we transfer one information to another?

SKETCH:
> If . This is how current `SofaDesigner` is implemented, but any coordinate system of $p_i$ can be chosen. 


- The space of hallway intersections with finite angles is finite-dimensional
	- Has three sets of variables: x, p, boundary measure values.
	- Has a finite number of inequalities constraints on the variables.

`SofaDesigner` produces a proof tree on such space of polygonal sofas.

We want to make the definition as general as possible, without relying on an expression.

> __Definition [node].__ A _node_ $N$ is a set of linear constraints on the domain $V$. ^def-node

Let's make no distintion between a polytope $P$ and its list of inequalities.

> __Definition [branch-tree].__ A _branch tree_ $T$ is is a full binary tree consisting of nodes, such that each node $N$ of $T$ is either a leaf node, or has exactly two childs $N \cup \left\{ I \right\}$ and $N \cup \left\{ I^c \right\}$. ^def-branch-tree

In this way, the domain of the root of $T$ is a disjoint union of the domain of the leaf nodes of $T$.

A convex polytope $P$ of $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$ is described by inequalities attached to it. Say that a polytope $P \subseteq \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ _admits_ polyline $\mathbf{i} = i_0, \dots, i_m$ if it is guaranteed that the vertices $l_{i_k} \cap l_{i_{k+1}}$ are guaranteed to appear in the order from left to right. This is a bunch of linear inequalities and can be readily checked using linear programming. Then, we have the following lemma.

$\mathcal{A} \leq \mathcal{A}_{\mathbf{i}}$
So 

> __Definition [sofa-branch-tree].__ A branch tree $T$ is a _sofa branch tree_ with angle set $\Theta$ if the followings hold. ^def-sofa-branch-tree
> 
> - The root node $T$ represents the convex polytope $\mathcal{K}_\Theta$.
> - Every leaf node of $T$ is either _invalid_ or _valid_.
> - A invalid node $P$ is equipped with an admitted polyline $\mathbf{i}$, so that the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_\mathbf{i}$ constrainted to $P$ is at most $2.2195\dots$.
> - A valid node $P$ is also equipped with an admitted polyline $\mathbf{i}$, and represents a subset $P \cap \left\{ \mathcal{A}_{\mathbf{i}} \geq 2.2195 \right\}$.

- Definition of a tree
	- Node = Quadratic Programming
	- Branching = inequality and its antisymmetric ineq 

- What does it take to verify a tree
	- Check that it is positive semidefinite
	- Check area
	- Check polyline

- Question: Why can we assume that $p_0$ = 0? By translation of course. But we also have to ensure that the functionals we bound for is invariant under this translation.