# Jordan Curve

We recall the notion of Jordan arc and curve.

> __Definition [jordan-curve].__ A _Jordan arc_ $\Gamma$ is the image of a continuous and injective function $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. We call $\mathbf{x}$ a _parametrization_ of $\Gamma$. For Jordan arcs, we allow the case $a=b$ to allow a single point to be a Jordan arc. A _Jordan curve_ $\Gamma$ is the image of a continuous and injective function $\mathbf{x} : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}^2$. ^def-jordan-curve

Equivalently, a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ is the image of a continuous function $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ with $a < b$ which is injective on $[a, b)$ and $\mathbf{x}(a) = \mathbf{x}(b)$. Unlike Jordan arcs, we require $a \neq b$ for Jordan curves in order for the following famous theorem to hold.

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ The complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus \Gamma$ of a Jordan curve $\Gamma$ is a disjoint union of two connected components $U$ and $V$ where $U$ is bounded and $V$ is unbounded. Moreover, $U$ and $V$ are open and $\partial U = \partial V = X$. Say that $U$ is the _region enclosed by $\Gamma$_. ^thm-jordan-curve

We can give orientation to a Jordan arc.

> __Definition [jordan-arc-orientation].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any Jordan arc. Take any parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of $\Gamma$, and call the points $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ the _endpoints_ of $\Gamma$; the endpoints of $\Gamma$ are independent of the choice of $\mathbf{x}$. An _oriented Jordan arc_ $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$ is a Jordan arc $\Gamma$ with one endpoint $p$ marked as the _starting point_ and the other endpoint $q$ marked as the _ending point_. A _parametrization_ $\mathbf{x} : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ of an oriented Jordan arc $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$ is a parametrization of the unoriented arc $\Gamma$ that preserves the order $\mathbf{x}(a) = p$ and $\mathbf{x}(b) = q$ of endpoints of $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$. ^def-jordan-arc-orientation

> __Definition [jordan-curve-orientation].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any Jordan curve. An _oriented Jordan curve_ $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$ is the unoriented curve $\Gamma$ with a _clockwise_ or _counterclockwise_ direction assigned. A _parametrization_ $\mathbf{x} : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of an oriented Jordan curve $\overrightarrow{\Gamma}$ is a parametrization of $\Gamma$ such that,  ^def-jordan-curve-orientation

# Curve Area Functional

We define the _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ of $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, so that if $\mathbf{x}$ parametrizes a Jordan curve in a counterclockwise direction, then $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by the curve $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [plane-cross-product].__ For two vectors $p = (a, b)$ and $q = (c, d)$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$, define their cross product $p \times q := ad - b c \in \mathbb{R}$. For a pair $p = (p_1, p_2)$ of bounded measurable functions and a pair $\mu = (\mu_1, \mu_2)$ of finite signed measures on a set $X$, define the finite signed measure $p \times \mu := p_1 \, \mu_2 - p_2 \, \mu_1$ on $X$. ^def-plane-cross-product

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ For any continuous function $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of bounded variation, define its _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ as ^curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t).
$$

Note that the integral in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/10. Curve#^def-curve-area-differentiable]] is over the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $\mathrm{d} \mathbf{x}(t)$ of $\mathbf{x}$ taken the cross product with $\mathbf{x}(t)$ as in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/10. Curve#^def-plane-cross-product]]. Writing the coordinates of $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t))$, we can write $\mathrm{d} \mathbf{x} = (\mathrm{d} x, \mathrm{d} y)$ and $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ more explicitly as
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b R_{\pi/2}(\mathbf{x}(t)) \cdot d\mathbf{x}(t) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t)\, dy(t) - y(t)\, dx(t)
$$
instead, where $R_{\pi/2}(x, y) = (-y, x)$ is the rotation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ along the origin by $\pi/2$. Fix an oriented Jordan arc $\Gamma$ and take any parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of $\Gamma$. Then the value $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ is a line integral on $\Gamma$, so the value of $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ is independent of the choice of $\mathbf{x}$. Similarly, any parametrization of an oriented Jordan curve $\Gamma$ are circular shifts of each other, and so the value $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ is fixed.

> __Definition [curve-area-jordan-arc].__ For any oriented Jordan arc or curve $\Gamma$, the value of $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ is independent of the choice of parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of $\Gamma$; call this value $\mathcal{J}(\Gamma)$. ^def-curve-area-jordan-arc

In particular, the curve area functional of the oriented line segment from $p$ to $q$ is the following.

> __Definition [curve-area-line-segment].__ For any two points $p, q \in \mathbb{R}^2$, define $\mathcal{J}(p, q) := (p \times q) / 2$. ^def-curve-area-line-segment

> __Proposition [curve-area-line-segment].__ The curve area functional of the oriented line segment from point $p$ to $q$ is $\mathcal{J}(p, q)$. Moreover, if there is some $t \in S^1$ so that $p \cdot u_t = q \cdot u_t = h$ for some $h \in \mathbb{R}$ and $q - p = s v_t$ for some $s \in \mathbb{R}$, then $\mathcal{J}(p, q) = hs/2$. ^pro-curve-area-line-segment

_Proof._ Parametrize the line segment from $p$ to $q$ as $\mathbf{x}(t) = p + (q - p) t$ for $t \in [0, 1]$. Then $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ evaluates to $(p \times q) / 2$ which is $\mathcal{J}(p, q)$. Moreover, $p \times q = p \times (q - p) = p \times (s v_t) = s (p \cdot u_t) = hs$ so $\mathcal{J}(p, q) = hs/2$. □

We have the following additivity of $\mathcal{J}$.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-additive].__ Let the oriented Jordan arc or curve $\Gamma$ be the concatenation of two oriented Jordan arcs $\Gamma_1$ and $\Gamma_2$. That is, the ending point of $\Gamma_1$ matches with the starting point of $\Gamma_2$, and $\Gamma$ is obtained by following $\Gamma_1$ first then $\Gamma_2$ next. Then $\mathcal{J}(\gamma) = \mathcal{J}(\alpha) + \mathcal{J}(\beta)$. ^pro-curve-area-functional-additive

> __Theorem [curve-area-functional-area].__ If $\mathbf{x}$ is a rectifiable parametrization of a Jordan curve oriented counterclockwise, then $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$. ^thm-curve-area-functional-area

_Proof._ Apply Green's theorem (Theorem 10.43, page 289 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]) on the curve $\mathbf{x}$ and vector field $(P, Q) = (-y, x)$. □

If $\mathbf{x}$ is not closed (that is, $\mathbf{x}(a) \neq \mathbf{x}(b)$), the sofa area functional $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}$, and two line segments connecting the origin to $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ respectively.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ be the real vector space of all continuous maps of bounded variation from $[a, b]$ to $\mathbb{R}^2$. Then the curve area functional $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x})$ on $\mathbf{x} \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ is quadratic. Moreover, for any $\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^* \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$ the directional derivative of $\mathcal{J}$ from $\mathbf{x}$ to $\mathbf{x}^*$ evaluates to ^thm-variation-curve
$$
D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \left[ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}^*(t) - \mathbf{x}(t))  \times d\mathbf{x} (t) \right] +  \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(b), \mathbf{x}^*(b)) - \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(a), \mathbf{x}^*(a)).
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on arbitrary $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 \in C^\mathrm{BV}[a, b]$. Apply [[old/xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get ^eqn-variation-curve
$$
2\, \mathcal{D} \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^*) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}^*, \mathbf{x}) - 2 \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}).
$$
With integration by parts on Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral, we get
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}^*(t) = \mathbf{x} (b) \times \mathbf{x}^*(b) - \mathbf{x}(a) \times \mathbf{x}^*(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}^*(t) \times d\mathbf{x} (t)
$$
or
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^*) = 2\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(b), \mathbf{x}^*(b)) - 2\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}(a), \mathbf{x}^*(a)) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}^*, \mathbf{x}).
$$
Plug this back in [[#^eqn-variation-curve]] and rearrange to get the desired equality. □

# Tangent Line

> __Definition [tangent-line-parametrization].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $t \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary. Define $\mathbf{l}^t_K : (t - \pi, t] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{l}^t_K(u) = v_K(u, t)$ for $u < t$ and $\mathbf{l}^t_K(t) = v_K^-(t)$. ^def-tangent-line-parametrization

> __Theorem [tangent-line-parametrization].__ Fix an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $t \in \mathbb{R}$. For any $a, b \in (t - \pi, t]$ such that $a \leq b$, the function $\mathbf{l}_{K, t}$ restricted to $[a, b]$ is a continuous parametrization of bounded variation of the segment from $\mathbf{l}^t_K(a)$ to $\mathbf{l}^t_K(b)$. Consequently, we have $\mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{l}_K^t|_{[a, b]} \right) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{l}_K^t(a), \mathbf{l}_K^t(b))$. ^thm-tangent-line-parametrization

_Proof._ Follows from the geometric fact that for every $t - \pi < t_1 < t_2 < t$, the point $v_K(t, t_1)$ lies in the segment connecting $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_K(t, t_2)$. □