Define the following convex curve segment of the boundary of a convex body $K$ (see ).

> __Definition [convex-curve].__ For any planar convex body $K$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $a < b < a + \pi$, define the segment of the boundary of $K$ ^def-convex-curve
$$
\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} := \left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\} \cup \bigcup_{t \in (a, b)} e_K(t) \cup \left\{ v_K^-(b) \right\}.
$$

The goal of this [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/20. Convex Curve]] is to show that $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is a rectifiable curve and evaluate its curve area functional.

> __Lemma [convex-curve-cut].__ Assume arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. If $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$, then $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to the single point $\left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$. If $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$, then the followings hold. ^lem-convex-curve-cut
> 
> 1. The point $v_K(a, b)$ is not on the line $l'$ connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$.
> 2. The closed half-plane $H'$ with boundary $l'$ containing $v_K(a, b)$ have normal angle $t' \in (a, b)$.
> 3. Set $K' := K \cap H'$, then $K'$ is a planar convex body satisfying the followings.
> 	i. For any $t \in (t' - \pi, a]$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = \left\{ v_K^+(a) \right\}$.
> 	ii. For any $t \in (a, b)$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = e_K(t)$.
> 	iii. For any $t \in [b, t' + \pi)$, we have $e_{K'}(t) = \left\{ v_K^-(b) \right\}$.
> 	iv. The edge $e_{K'}(t' + \pi)$ is the line segment from $v_K^-(b)$ to $v_K^+(a)$.

_Proof._ Define the closed cone $X = H_K(a) \cap H_K(b)$ with vertex $v_K(a, b)$. The boundary of $X$ is the union of two half-lines $X \cap l_K(a)$ and $X \cap l_K(b)$ meeting at $v_K(a, b)$ in an angle of $b-a \in (0, \pi)$. The face $X \cap l_K(a)$ (resp. $X \cap l_K(b)$) of $X$ is the half-line starting from the vertex $v_K^+(a)$ (resp. $v_K^-(b)$). So we have $v_K(a, b) = v_K^+(a) + \alpha v_a$ for some $\alpha \geq 0$ and $v_K^-(b) = v_K(a, b) + \beta v_b$ for some $\beta \geq 0$.

First assume $v_K(a, b) \in K$. Then since $v_K(a, b) \subseteq K \subseteq X$, we have $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b) = v_K(a, b)$ and $e_K(t) = \left\{ v_K(a, b) \right\}$ for all $t \in (a, b)$. So $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$ and $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to the single point $v_K^+(a)$ as claimed.

Now assume $v_K(a, b) \not\in K$. Then since $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b) \in K$ but $v_K(a, b) \not\in K$, we have $\alpha, \beta > 0$ and the closed triangle $T$ with vertices $v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b), v_K(a, b)$ not on the same line, showing (1). Also, the vector $v_K^+(a) - v_K^-(b) = \alpha v_a + \beta v_b$ is equal to $\tau v_{t'}$ for some $\tau > 0$ and $t' \in (a, b)$. Define $l'$ as the line connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$, and $H'$ as the closed half-plane with boundary $l'$ and normal angle $t'$. Then (2) holds and $X \cap H' = T$.

Since $e_T(t')$ is the segment connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$, we have $e_T(t') \subseteq K' \subseteq T$. This, with that $T$ have normal angles $a, b, t' + \pi$, implies (i), (iii), (iv) of (3). It remains to show (ii) of (3). It suffices to show that for all $t \in (a, b)$, we have $e_K(t) \subseteq T$ as this implies $e_K(t) \subseteq K' = K \cap T$. Take any $p \in K \setminus T$. Our goal is to show $p \not\in e_K(t)$ for all $t \in (a, b)$. If $t \leq t'$, then the point $p$ is in the cone $H_K(a) \setminus H'$ centered at (but not containing) $v_K^+(a)$, so we have $p \cdot u_t < v_K^+(a) \cdot u_t \leq h_K(t)$ and $p \not\in e_K(t)$. For the case $t \geq t'$, we can do a similar argument with the cone $H_K(b) \setminus H'$. □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area-functional].__ Let $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Then the set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/20. Convex Curve#^def-convex-curve]] is a rectifiable Jordan arc from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, and its curve area functional is ^thm-convex-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)}h_K(t)\, \sigma_K(dt).
$$

_Proof._ If $v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$, then by [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-triangle]] the set $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ degenerates to a single point $p= v_K^+(a) = v_K^-(b)$. So for all $t \in (a, b)$, the set $e_K(t)$ is equal to $p$, and by [[a. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/04. Notations/00. Preface#^thm-surface-area-measure]] the measure $\sigma_K$ is zero on the interval $(a, b)$. Now the claimed equality holds.

Now assume the case $v_K^+(a) \neq v_K^-(b)$. Define the convex body $K'$ containing $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$ as in [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]]. If $K'$ has empty interior, then by (4) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] $K'$ should be the line segment connecting $v_K^+(a)$ and $v_K^-(b)$. So $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is the line segment from $v_K^+(a)$ to $v_K^-(b)$, and by [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/10. Curve#^pro-curve-area-line-segment]] we have $\mathcal{J}(v_K^+(a), v_K^-(b)) = h_K(t') \sigma_K(t') / 2$, verifying the equality.

Now assume that $K'$ have nonempty interior. It is a well-known fact that the boundary $\partial K'$ of $K'$ is a rectifiable Jordan curve.[^convex-body-parametrization] By (3) of [[#^lem-convex-curve-cut]], the boundary $\partial K'$ of $K'$ is the union of $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ and the line segment $s$ from $v_K^-(b)$ to $v_K^+(a)$. Since $s$ is a compact interval of $\partial K'$, it should be that $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$ is an oriented Jordan arc inheriting the parametrization from $\partial K'$. By [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/10. Curve#^pro-curve-area-functional-area]] we have ^eqn-uab-one
$$
|K'| = \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_K^-(b), v_K^+(a) \right) .
$$
On the other hand, by XX we have
$$
|K'| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in S^1} h_{K'}(t)\,\sigma_{K'}(dt).
$$
By (3) of [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/20. Convex Curve#^lem-convex-curve-cut]] and [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/10. Curve#^pro-curve-area-line-segment]], this evaluates to ^eqn-uab-two
$$
|K'| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_{K}(t)\,\sigma_{K}(dt) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_K^-(b), v_K^+(a) \right).
$$
By comparing [[#^eqn-uab-one]] to [[#^eqn-uab-two]], we get the desired equality. □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area-variation].__ Fix $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Define $f(K) := \mathcal{J}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right)$ as a functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}$. Then $f$ is quadratic on $\mathcal{K}$ and its directional derivative from $K$ to $K^*$ evaluates to ^thm-convex-curve-area-variation
$$
D f(K; K^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{K^*}(t) - h_K(t) \right) \, \sigma_{K}(dt) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^-(b), v_K^- (b) \right) - \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^+(a), v_K^+ (a) \right).
$$

_Proof._ Define the bilinear form $\mathcal{B} : \mathcal{K} \times \mathcal{K} \to \mathbb{R}$ on $\mathcal{K}$ as ^eqn-b-def
$$
\mathcal{B}(K_1, K_2) := \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_{K_1}(t) \, \sigma_{K_2}(dt) .
$$
We first show ^eqn-b-vertex
$$
\mathcal{B}(K_1, K_2) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{K_1}^+(t) \times d v_{K_2}^+(t) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{K_1}^-(t) \times d v_{K_2}^+(t).
$$
To do so, check
$$
v_{K_1}^{\pm}(t) \times \textrm{d} v_{K_2}(t) = v_{K_1}^{\pm}(t) \times (v_t \sigma_{K_2}) = (v_{K_1}^{\pm}(t) \times v_t) \sigma_{K_2} = h_{K_1}(t) \sigma_{K_2}
$$
as pairs of measures on $t \in (a, b)$.

By integration by parts (), and that the left limit of $v_{K_1}^+$ at $t$ is $v_{K_1}^-(t)$ ([[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/10. Convex Body#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]]), we get
$$
\int_{t \in (a, b)} d v_{K_1}^+(t) \times v_{K_2}^+(t) + \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{K_1}^-(t) \times d v_{K_2}^+(t) = v_{K_1}^-(b) \times v_{K_2}^-(b) - v_{K_1}^+(a) \times v_{K_2}^+(b).
$$
With [[#^eqn-b-vertex]] and the anticommutativity $a \times b = -b \times a$ of cross product, this becomes
$$
\mathcal{B}(K_1, K_2) - \mathcal{B}(K_2, K_1) = 2 \mathcal{J}(v_{K_1}^-(b), v_{K_2}^-(b)) - 2 \mathcal{J} (v_{K_1}^+(a), v_{K_2}^+(b)).
$$

Now use XX on $f(K) = \mathcal{B}(K, K)$ to get
$$
\begin{align*}
D f(K; K^*) & = \mathcal{B}(K, K^*) + \mathcal{B}(K^*, K) - 2 \mathcal{B}(K, K) \\
& = 2\mathcal{B}(K^*, K) - 2 \mathcal{B}(K, K) + \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^-(b), v_K^- (b) \right) - \mathcal{J}\left( v_{K^*}^+(a), v_K^+ (a) \right)
\end{align*}
$$
and use [[#^eqn-b-def]]. □

[^convex-body-parametrization]: TODO: add a quick proof.