We prove a generalized version of Mamikon's theorem [@mnatsakanianAnnularRingsEqual1997].

> __Definition [mamikon].__ Fix an arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$ and $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < \pi + a$. For any continuous function $\mathbf{z} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of bounded variation such that $z(t) \in l_K(t)$ for all $t \in [a, b]$, define the expression ^def-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{M}_K(a, b; \mathbf{z}) = \mathcal{I}\left( v_K^+(a), \mathbf{z}(a) \right) + \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z}) + \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{z}(b), v_K^-(b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \right).
$$

The idea behind [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/30. Mamikon's Theorem#^def-mamikon]] is that the expression $\mathcal{M}_K(a, b; \mathbf{z})$ is the area of the region bounded by the curves $\mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$, $\mathbf{z}$, and the line segments from $v_K^+(a)$ to $\mathbf{z}(a)$ and from $v_K^-(b)$ to $\mathbf{z}(b)$ respectively. If the four curves concatenated in the given order indeed forms a counterclockwise Jordan curve $\Gamma$, then $\mathcal{M}_K(a, b; \mathbf{z})$ evaluates the area enclosed by $\Gamma$.  Mamikon's theorem states that the area is expressible as an integral of squares.

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ Assume the notations in [[03. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/05. Setup/30. Mamikon's Theorem#^def-mamikon]]. Then the function $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ defined as $\alpha(t) := \left( \mathbf{z}(t) - v_K^+(t) \right) \cdot v_t$ is bounded and measurable, and we have ^thm-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{M}_K(a, b; \mathbf{z}) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{a}^{b} \alpha(t) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ Write $\mathbf{v}(t) := v_K^+(t)$ for all $t \in [a, b)$. Note that both $\mathbf{v}$ and $\mathbf{z}$ are right-continuous by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]], so that $f$ and $\mathbf{z} \times \mathbf{v}$ are also right-continuous on $(t_0, t_1]$. So the differential $d(\mathbf{z} \times \mathbf{v})$ makes sense as a Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure on $(t_0, t_1]$ ([[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]). We have the chain of equalities
$$
\begin{align*}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{z} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{z} - \mathbf{v} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{v} + \mathrm{d} \left( \mathbf{z} \times \mathbf{v} \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{z} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{z} - \mathbf{v} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{v} + \left( \mathrm{d} \mathbf{z} \times \mathbf{v} + \mathbf{z} \times \mathrm{d} \mathbf{v}  \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{z} - \mathbf{v} \right) \times \mathrm{d}\left( \mathbf{z} + \mathbf{v} \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{z} - \mathbf{v} \right) \times \mathrm{d}\left( \mathbf{z} - \mathbf{v} \right)  \\
& = f u_t \times \mathrm{d}\left( f u_t \right) = f u_t \times ( u_t \mathrm{d}f + f v_t \mathrm{d}t) = f^2 dt
\end{align*}
$$
of measures and functions on $t \in (a, b]$. The first equality uses the product rule of differentials ([[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]). The second equality is bilinearity of $\times$ (note that $d \mathbf{z}(t) \times \mathbf{v}(t) = - \mathbf{v}(t) \times d \mathbf{z}(t)$ by antisymmetry of $\times$). As we have $d \mathbf{v}(t) = \sigma(dt)v_t$ by [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]] and $\mathbf{z}(t) - \mathbf{v}(t) = f(t)v_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{z}(t) - \mathbf{v}(t)) \times d \mathbf{v}(t) = 0$ which is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalities are basic calculations.

If we integrate the differential formula above on the whole interval $(t_0, t_1]$, the terms $\mathbf{z}(t) \times d \mathbf{z}(t)$ and $\mathbf{v}(t) \times d \mathbf{v}(t)$ becomes $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{z})$ and $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{v})$ by [[old/xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-curve-area-functional]] and [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]] respectively. The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d(\mathbf{z}(t) \times \mathbf{v}(t))$ integrates to the difference $2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{z}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - 2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{z}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$. So the integral matches twice the left-hand side of the claimed equality in [[old/xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]], completing the proof. □

> __Theorem [mamikon-convex].__ Fix $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < \pi + a$. Assume that a function $\mathbf{z}_K \in C^{\mathrm{BV}}[a, b]$ is determined by arbitrary $K \in \mathcal{K}$, so that the map $K \mapsto \mathbf{z}_K$ is linear. Then the expression $\mathcal{M}_K(a, b; \mathbf{z}_K)$ is quadratic and convex as a functional on $K \in \mathcal{K}$. ^thm-mamikon-convex

_Proof._  □