In order to compute the area of the niche of a monotone sofa, we need to invoke a generalized version of Green's theorem to arbitrary rectifiable Jordan curve. We mainly follow the following reference for the definitions and terminologies that we will use.


We first clarify what is a rectifiable Jordan curve by citing the main reference.

(note that continuity of $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is described by Theorem 8-16)

> __Definition [jordan-curve].__ (Definition 8-16) Let $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be a continuous function. If $\mathbf{x}$ is one-to-one on $[a, b)$ and $\mathbf{x}(a) = \mathbf{x}(b)$, then the image $\Gamma$ of $\mathbf{x}$ is called a _Jordan curve_. We say that $\Gamma$ is _described by_ $\mathbf{x}$. ^def-jordan-curve

TODO: defintion of line integral.

> __Definition [signed-area-rectifiable-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{f}(x, y) = (-y, x)$. Define the following for any rectifiable curve $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t)) \in \mathbb{R}^2$. $$I(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_{a}^{b} \mathbf{f} \cdot d \mathbf{x}(t)$$ ^def-signed-area-rectifiable-curve

TODO: expand this informal note. This just is meant to be another notion for $$\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) = \int_{a}^{b} \mathbf{x}(t) \times \mathbf{x}'(t) dt$$ when $\mathbf{x}$ is absolutely continuous.

TODO: expand the sketch of [[#^thm-green]]

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x} = (1 - \lambda) \mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2$ be a line segment parametrization from $\mathbf{x}_1$ to $\mathbf{x}_2$ where $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b] \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^2$ are absolutely continuous functions. Then the following holds. $$\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{\mathbf{x}_2(a) \times \mathbf{x}_1 (a) - \mathbf{x}_2(b) \times \mathbf{x}_1(b)}{2}
+ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)$$ ^thm-variation-curve

_Proof._  
$$
\begin{align*}
\mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times \mathbf{x}'(t) 
= \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1)) \times (\mathbf{x}'_1 + \lambda (\mathbf{x}'_2 - \mathbf{x}'_1)) \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \lambda \left( \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times \mathbf{x}'_1 + \mathbf{x}_1 \times (\mathbf{x}'_2 - \mathbf{x}'_1) dt \right) + \textrm{(const/quad terms of lambda)} \\
\end{align*}
$$

Do integration by parts.
$$
\begin{align*}
\int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times \mathbf{x}'_1 dt & = 
(\mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(b)) \times \mathbf{x}_1 (b) - (\mathbf{x}_2(a) - \mathbf{x}_1(a)) \times \mathbf{x}_1(a)
- \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}'_2 - \mathbf{x}'_1) \times \mathbf{x}_1 dt \\
& = \mathbf{x}_2(b) \times \mathbf{x}_1 (b) - \mathbf{x}_2(a) \times \mathbf{x}_1(a)
+ \int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1 \times (\mathbf{x}'_2 - \mathbf{x}'_1) dt
\end{align*}
$$
So we have
$$
\begin{align*}
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} \mathcal{A}(\mathbf{x}) & = 
\frac{1}{2} \left( \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times \mathbf{x}'_1 + \mathbf{x}_1 \times (\mathbf{x}'_2 - \mathbf{x}'_1) dt \right) \\
& = \frac{\mathbf{x}_2(a) \times \mathbf{x}_1 (a) - \mathbf{x}_2(b) \times \mathbf{x}_1(b)}{2}
+ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times \mathbf{x}'_1 dt
\end{align*}
$$
□

%% THE ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALIT Y FO R CURVE S WITH SELF-INTERSECTIONS BY ANDREW VOGT
dfdf
%%

%% %%