All real-valued measurable functions used in this and upcoming works will be bounded and defined on some finite interval $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$. All measures $\mu$ used in this and upcoming works will be finite signed Borel measures on some finite interval $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$. That is, for any Borel subset $X$ of $I$, the value $\mu(X)$ will be real and not $\pm \infty$.

Here, we will define the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ $\mathrm{d} f$ of a real-valued function $f$ ([[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]]), so that we can state informal calculations involving differentials like $d(t^2) = 2t \, dt$ rigorously like $\mathrm{d}(t^2) = 2t \, \mathrm{d}t$. Unlike differentials $df$, the measure $\mathrm{d} f$ has a clear interpretation and also works for functions $f$ that may not be continuous. We will use this in particular to prove equalities on general convex bodies that may have non-differentiable boundaries.

We use the following notations. 

> __Definition [function-measure-mult].__ For any bounded measurable function $f$ and finite signed Borel measure $\mu$ on a finite interval $I$ of $\mathbb{R}$, denote the scalar multiplication of $f$ and $\mu$ as $f \, \mu$ which is the measure on $I$ defined as $f \mu(X) := \int_{t \in X} f(t) \, \mu(dt)$. Note that $f \, \mu$ is also a finite signed Borel measure. ^def-function-measure-mult
> 
> - If $f$ is a _pair_ $(f_1, f_2)$ of bounded measurable function and $\mu$ is a finite signed Borel measure, the notion $f \, \mu$ denotes the pair $(f_1 \, \mu, f_2 \, \mu)$.
> - If $f$ is a bounded measurable function and $\mu = (\mu_1, \mu_2)$ is a pair of finite signed Borel measure, then the notion $f \, \mu$ denotes $(f \, \mu_1, f \, \mu_2)$.
> - If both $f = (f_1, f_2)$ and $\mu = (\mu_1, \mu_2)$ are pairs of bounded measurable functions and finite signed Borel measures respectively, then $f \cdot \mu$ denotes $f_1 \, \mu_1 + f_2 \, \mu_2$. 

Recall the following standard real analysis definition.

> __Definition [bounded-variation].__ A function $f : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ is of _bounded variation_ if there is an absolute constant $C$ such that, for any partition $a = t_0 < t_1 < \dots < t_n = b$ of $I$, the sum $\sum_{i=1}^n \left| f(t_i) - f(t_{i-1}) \right|$ is bounded from above by $C$. ^def-bounded-variation

We extend [[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-bounded-variation]] to half-open intervals.

> __Definition [bounded-variation-half-open].__ Say that a function $f : (a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ on a half-open interval is of _bounded variation_ if $f$ can be extended to some $\overline{f} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation. ^def-bounded-variation-half-open

We use the notation $\mathrm{d} f$ to denote the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ of $f$ defined as the following.

> __Definition [lebesgue-stieltjes].__ For any right-continuous $f : I \to \mathbb{R}$ on a half-open interval $I := (a, b]$ of bounded variation, define the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure_ $\mathrm{d} f$ of $f$ on $I$ as the unique finite signed Borel measure such that $\mathrm{d} f((a, t]) = f(t) - f(a)$ for all $t \in I$. If $f(t) = (f_1(t), f_2(t))$ is a _pair_ of such functions, then $\mathrm{d} f$ denotes the pair $(\mathrm{d} f_1, \mathrm{d} f_2)$. ^def-lebesgue-stieltjes

The existence of such a measure $\mathrm{d} f$ in [[#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] is guaranteed by extending $f$ to $[a, b]$ naturally as $f(a) = \lim_{ t \to a^+ } f(t)$ using that $f$ is of bounded variation, and applying Theorem 4.3, page 5 of [@revuz2013continuous] restricted to the interval $[a, b]$.

We use [[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] to state informal calculations of differentials like $d(t^2) = 2t \, dt$ rigorously as $\mathrm{d}(t^2) = 2t \, \mathrm{d}t$. Here, the variable $t \in I$ parametrizes the domain $I := (a, b]$. Note the followings.

- The measure $\mathrm{d}(t^2)$ is the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of the function $f(t) = t^2$ on $I$. So for example, the measure $\mathrm{d}(t^2)$ on an interval $(0, x] \subseteq I$ is equal to $x^2$.
- The measure $\mathrm{d} t$ is the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure of the function $g(t) = t$ on $I$. That is, $\mathrm{d} t$ is the usual Lebesgue measure on $I$. So $2t \, \mathrm{d}t$ is the measure on $I$ with density function $t \mapsto 2t$.
- Unlike differentials, [[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes]] works for non-continuous $f$ as well. Let $f(x)$ be the step function defined as $f(x) = 1$ for $x \geq 0$ and $f(x) = 0$ for $x < 0$. Then $\mathrm{d}f$ is the point measure with mass one concentrated at $x=0$.

> __Definition [lebesgue-stieltjes-integral].__ Fix an interval $I := (a, b]$ parametrized by $t$. Let $f : I \to \mathbb{R}$ be arbitrary of right-continuous and of bounded variation, and bounded measurable function $g : I \to \mathbb{R}$. Denote the integral of the function $g$ on Borel subset $X \subseteq I$ with respect to the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $\mathrm{d} f$ of $f$ as ^def-lebesgue-stieltjes-integral
$$
\int_{t\in X} g(t) \, df(t) \qquad \text{ or} \qquad \int_{X} g \, df
$$
> which is called the _Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral_ of $g$ with respect to $f$.

With [[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^def-lebesgue-stieltjes-integral]], the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $\mathrm{d} f$ converts to the differential $df$ when integrated. A measure $\mu$ which is not Lebesgue-Stieltjes, on the other hand, converts to the differential $\mu(dt)$ when integrated.

The map $f \mapsto \mathrm{d} f$ is linear like differentials would do.

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes-sum].__ For any right-continuous $f, g : (a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation and real values $r, s \in \mathbb{R}$, we have $\mathrm{d} (r f + s g) = r \, \mathrm{d} f + s \, \mathrm{d} g$ as signed measures on $I$. ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-sum

The product rule $\mathrm{d}(fg) = g \, \mathrm{d}f + f \, \mathrm{d}g$ is more subtle. We need one of $f$ or $g$ to be continuous.

> __Theorem [integration-by-parts].__ (Proposition 4.5, page 6 of [@revuzContinuousMartingalesBrownian1999]) For any right-continuous $f, g : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation, we have ^thm-integration-by-parts
$$
\int_{t \in (a, b]} g(t)\, df(t) + \int_{t \in (a, b]} f(t-) \, dg(t) = f(b) g(b) - f(a) g(a)
$$
> where $f(t-)$ denotes the left limit of $f$ at $t$.

> __Theorem [lebesgue-stieltjes-product].__ For any right-continuous $f, g : (a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ of bounded variation, if one of $f$ or $g$ is continuous then the equality $\mathrm{d}(fg) = g \, \mathrm{d}f + f \, \mathrm{d}g$ holds. ^thm-lebesgue-stieltjes-product

_Proof._ Assume without loss of generality that $f$ is continuous. It suffices to show that both sides, as measures on $(a, b]$, agree on the subset $(a, x]$ for all $x \in (a, b]$. This is true by [[02. Injectivity of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Notations and Properties/17. Lebesgue-Stieltjes Measure#^thm-integration-by-parts]]. □