All the terms we defined are expressed affine-linearly in terms of the coordinates of $K$. Moreover, the intersections of $d_i \cap d_j$ for $-n \leq i, j \leq n$ are expressible in affine-linear terms of $K$. 

Calculation:
$p_i$ $p_j$ $p_k$ $v_i$ $v_j$ $v_k$
When does the line $l_i = l(p_i, v_i)$ form cap or a cup?

$x \cdot v_i = p_i$
$x \cdot v_k = p_k$
Comparing $x \cdot v_j$ with $p_j$
$x = a u_i + b u_k$
$b (u_i \times u_k) = b (u_k \cdot v_i) = p_i$
$-a (u_i \times u_k) = a (u_i \cdot v_k) = p_k$
$x \cdot v_j = a(u_i \cdot v_j) + b (u_k \cdot v_j) = -a(u_i \times u_j) - b (u_k \times u_j) \leq p_j$

Equivalent to:
$p_k (u_i \times u_j) - p_i (u_k \times u_j) \leq p_j (u_i \times u_k)$
$p_k (u_i \times u_j) + p_i (u_i \times u_k) + p_j (u_i \times u_k) \leq 0$


- The space of hallway intersections with finite angles is finite-dimensional
	- Has three sets of variables: x, p, boundary measure values.
	- Has a finite number of inequalities constraints on the variables.

`SofaDesigner` produces a proof tree on such space of polygonal sofas.

In this way, the domain of the root of $T$ is a disjoint union of the domain of the leaf nodes of $T$.



- Definition of a tree
	- Node = Quadratic Programming
	- Branching = inequality and its antisymmetric ineq 

- What does it take to verify a tree
	- Check that it is positive semidefinite
	- Check area
	- Check polyline
		- Check the vertices in the increasing order.
		- Check each segment is properly contained in coordinates.

- Question: Why can we assume that $p_0$ = 0? By translation of course. But we also have to ensure that the functionals we bound for is invariant under this translation.

- Read json files and do branching
- Make sure that same logic produces same result

- Old logic
	- Inside union vs. Outside union?
- New logic
	- Divide into vertical lines
	- For each, do case analysis on over/under 

- Fix splitting logic
	- Once split, forget everything and just remember which nodes it split to
	- 

- Need: all collection of nodes in tree
- Index of nodes




```json
{
    1: "s 1",
    2: "s 2",
}
```

```json
N12: {
    is_leaf: false,
    split_by: 34,
    child_pos: "N45",
    child_neg: "N56",
}
```


```json
{
    n : 5,
    angles: [{"cos": "23234/234234", "sin": "234234/234324"}, {"cos": "234334", "sin": "24334"},],
    split_values: {
	    "1": "E 0 3", "2": "F 3 4", "3": "G 4 5",
    },
    tree: {
        N1: {
        },
        N2: {
        },
    }
}
```

Node -> if invalid, reports death to tree



How to design proofs of inequalities?