Theorem 1 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] states that there is a maximum-area moving sofa $S_{\omega}$ with _balanced_ side lengths. This theroem is important, and we will use it in the proof of the main [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]] and the upcoming works. However, we will see that Gerver's proof of Theorem 1 in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] needs further logical considerations. For this, [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/00. Preface]] reworks the proof and rigorously show the [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa]] and [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^thm-balanced-maximum-cap]] that implies Theorem 1 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992].

# Balancing Argument

We first outline the statement of Theorem 1 in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]. Fix the rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. Recall that, as described in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa]], a moving sofa $S$ is essentially a connected intersection $\mathcal{I} := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_t$ of strips and rotating hallways. Discretize the problem by taking a finite nonempty subset $\Theta$ of $(0, \omega)$ and the finite polygon intersection ^eqn-polygon
$$
S_\Theta := H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} L_t
$$
instead. The approximated problem now is to maximize the area of $S_\Theta$ by translating the finite number of hallways $L_t$ each rotated counterclockwise by $t \in \Theta$.

Say that the polygon $S_\Theta$ is _balanced_ if for any unit vector $v \in \mathbb{R}^2$, the sum of the lengths of edges of $S_\Theta$ of the normal vector $v$ is equal to that of the opposite normal vector $-v$ [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992].[^balanced] Gerver's idea is that a maximum-area polygon $S_\Theta$ in [[#^eqn-polygon]] should be balanced. Otherwise, we could push one of the $H$, $V_\omega$ or $L_t$ by a small distance in a direction orthogonal to the unbalanced side lengths and increase the area slightly, and if we pushed either $H$ or $V_\omega$, translate the whole $S_\Theta$ to move $H$ or $V_\omega$ back to its position.[^balancing-where]

As the angle set $\Theta$ becomes denser in $[0, \omega]$, by appealing to a compactness argument, there is a sequence of such maximal polygons $S_\Theta$ that converges to some maximum-area moving sofa $S_\omega$. This is the Theorem 1 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]. We copy the statement from [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] verbatim for readers to compare (footnotes ours).

> *Theorem 1.* There exists a real number $\gamma$, $\pi/3 \leq \gamma \leq \pi/2$, and a region $S$, such that $S$ can move around the corner of $H$,[^hallway-notation] rotating through an angle of $-\gamma$ in the process,[^rotation-angle] such that no region of greater area can move around the corner, and such that for arbitrarily large $n$, $S$ can be approximated arbitrarily closely by a polygonal region $P_n$ with the following properties:[^balancing-where] The boundary of $P_n$ is a balanced polygon. $P_n$ is the intersection of $n+1$ sets $H_\alpha$ (where $\alpha = k \gamma/n$ and $0 \leq k \leq n$). $H_0$ is the half-strip $x \leq 1$, $0 \leq y \leq 1$. $H_\gamma$ is a translation of the half strip $\gamma \leq 1$, $0 \leq x \leq 1$ rotated by angle $\gamma$. For $0 < \alpha < \gamma$, $H_\alpha$ is a translation of $H$ rotated by angle $\gamma$.

# Logical Gap in the Balancing Argument

The subtle logical gap in the proof of Theorem 1 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] by Gerver comes from the connectedness of sofas. In the first paragraph of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992], Gerver defines a sofa as a _connected_ planar region. However, in the proof of Theorem 1, neither the connectedness of the polygons $S_\Theta$ nor the limiting shape $S_\omega$ are addressed.[^connected]

It is then natural to try to fix his argument by simply restricting the shapes in his argument to be connected. This will not work, and explaining why so requires a full sketch of his idea. 

This reasoning, that a polygon $S_\Theta$ in [[#^eqn-polygon]] of maximum area is balanced, breaks when we require the shapes to be connected. As we require $S_\Theta$ to be connected, we allow the possibility that the maximum-area $S_\Theta$ is _not_ balanced, as any balancing move on $S_\Theta$ that increases the area as described by Gerver will immediately make the new $S_\Theta$ disconnected.

# Filling the Gap in the Balancing Argument

We fill this gap in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/00. Preface]] and rigorously establish the existence of a balanced maximum-area monotone sofa $S_\omega$ with rotation angle $\omega$. Instead of requring the polygonal approximation $S_{\Theta}$ to be connected, we will write $S_\Theta = K \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ as the difference of a polygon cap $K$ and polygon niche $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$, analogous to the (continuous) cap $K$ and niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of a monotone sofa $S$ in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa]]. Then we will maximize the value $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) := |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ with respect to the polygon cap $K$, regardless of whether $S_{\Theta} = K \setminus \mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ is connected or whether $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K) \subset K$. We show that the maximizer $K_\Theta$ is balanced in the sense that the sum of side lengths of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}_{\Theta}(K)$ balance with each other.

> __Theorem [maximum-polygon-cap-abridged].__ (abridged) A polygon cap $K_\Theta := K$ maximizing $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K) := |K| - |\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)|$ exists ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap]]) and is always balanced ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa]]), in the sense that the side lengths of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K)$ balance each other ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^def-polygon-cap-balanced]]). ^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged

Then we show that for such $K_\Theta$ in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged]] we have $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K_\Theta) \subset K_\Theta$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/15. Maximum Polygon Cap#^thm-balanced-polygon-sofa-connected]]). Using this, we will show that as $\Theta$ gets denser in $[0,\omega]$, the maximum polygon cap $K_\Theta$ in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged]] indeed converge to a monotone sofa attaining the maximum area with the fixed rotation angle $\omega$.

> __Theorem [maximum-area-polygon-limit].__ (abridged) For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, there exists a monotone sofa $S_\omega$ satisfying the followings. ^thm-maximum-area-polygon-limit
> 
> 1. $S_\omega$ attains the maximum area among all moving sofas of rotation angle $\omega$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^thm-limiting-maximum-sofa]]).
> 2. As $n \to \infty$, there is a sequence of finite sets $\Theta_n \subset (0, \omega)$ getting denser in $[0, \omega]$, so that the balanced polygon caps $K_{\Theta_n}$ in [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/01. Introduction/05. Balanced Sofa#^thm-maximum-polygon-cap-abridged]] converge to the cap $K_\omega$ of $S_\omega$ ([[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum Sofa#^thm-balanced-maximum-cap]]).


[^balanced]: Gerver's definition of balancedness in page 268 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] also require the parallel sides of opposite directions to have distance 1. But this does not make difference for $S_\Theta$ as the parallel sides of opposite directions in $S_\Theta$ always have distance 1 by definition.

[^balancing-where]: The polygon $S_{\Theta_n}$ is defined as $P_n$ in the first paragraph of page 272 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]. The balancing argument on $S_{\Theta}$ (or $P_n$ in his paper) is done in the second paragraph of page 273 in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992].

[^hallway-notation]: This $H$ in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] is the hallway $L$ in our paper.

[^rotation-angle]: This $\gamma$ in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] is the rotation angle $\omega$ in our paper.

[^connected]: In fact, the connectedness condition is not mentioned at all in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] after the definition of a sofa. In comparsion, a lot of work in the [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/05. Monotone Sofa/00. Preface]] and [[01. Rotation Angle of Maximum-area Sofas/10. Balanced Sofa/00. Preface]] are done to ensure the connectedness of a maximum-shape we find.