Fix rotation angle $\omega$. Fix a base angle set $\Theta$ and its extension $\Theta'$. Assume $\Theta$ consists of angles $\theta_0, \theta_1, \dots, \theta_n$.

Take any $K' \in \mathcal{K}_{\Theta'}$. We bound $w_{K'}^\circ$. Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_\Theta$ be the relaxation of $K'$. Then $\inf_{t \in (0, \omega)} w_K(t)$ is a lower bound of $w_{K'}^\circ$. Note that the lower bound uses all angle of $t$, not the ones only in $\Theta$.

Lemma. If $K_1 \subseteq K_2$ yet $A_{K_1}^-(0) = A_{K_2}^-(0)$, then the point $W_{K_2}^\circ$ is on the right side of $W_{K_1}^\circ$. 

_Proof._ We have $p_{K_2} \geq p_{K_1}$. So the line $b_K(t)$ is on the right side of $b_K(t)$. □

> __Theorem [bound-wedge-gap].__ For every $t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]$, we have $w_K(t) \geq \min(w_K(t_{i}), w_K(t_{i+1})) - c_{t_i, t_{i+1}}$ where $c = \tan((t_{i+1} - t_i) / 2)$. ^thm-bound-wedge-gap

_Proof._ 

It suffices to show the case where $K$ is a polygon with normal angles in $\Theta_7$. Because of the lemma above.

$w_K(t)$ is the position of $W_K(t)$ on the line $x=0$ relative to the point $A_K^-(0)$.
In other words, $w_K(t)$ is the leftmost position of $B_K(t) \cap \left\{ x = 0 \right\}$. So, $\min_{t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]} w_K(t)$ is determined by the leftmost point of $B_c = \cap_{t \in [t_i, t_{i+1}]} B_K(t)$ with line $x=0$. On the other hand,  $\min(w_K(t_{i}), w_K(t_{i+1}))$ is determined by the set $B_d = B_K(t_1) \cap B_K(t_2)$ with line $x=0$. The difference between $B_c$ and $B_d$ is a small annulus region. Consider an arc with angles from $t_i$ to $t_{i+1}$ with radius 1. Draw two tangent lines to the endpoints of the arc, so that the arc and the tangent lines form a small region. The maximum length of the intersection of the region and a horizontal line.


□

We essentially want a specific point $p$ that needs to be outside the niche, right next to the niche.
In the setting of `SofaDesigner`, $p$ has a determined coordinate.
For every $u_t$, we want $p_K(t) - p \cdot u_t \geq 1$. 

Bounding only one side of niche, we have a lower bound of $9/32$. 
This suffices for angle proof. But this never suffices for 