Following the outline in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/03. Outline/07. Proof of the Main Theorem]], we will prove the following main step of the proof of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]].

> __Theorem [balanced-consumed].__ Let $\omega \in [\sec^{-1}(2.2), \pi/2)$ be arbitrary. Let $K_\omega \in \mathcal{K}_\omega$ be the cap in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofa/20. Balanced Maximum-area Sofa#^thm-balanced-maximum-area-sofa]]. Assume also that $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) > 2.2$. Then there exists some $t \in (0, \omega)$ such that the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega$ are in the closure of the quadrant $Q_K^-(\pi/2 - \omega)$. ^thm-balanced-consumed

We factor out technical calculations of the proof of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]] for easier verification. Readers interested in the main proof can jump there and reference the calculations below as needed.

> __Definition [right-triangle].__ Say that a right triangle $T$ have _base_ $b$ and _angle_ $\theta$, if an edge $e$ of $T$ connecting right-angled vertex $O$ with some other vertex $B$ have length $b$, and the angle at $B$ is equal to $\theta$. We call the length of the edge orthogonal to $e$ the _height_ of $T$. ^def-right-triangle

> __Proposition [omega-gap].__ For any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$, define $c_\omega = \tan((\pi/2 - \omega) / 2)$. Then $o_\omega - v_0 = c_\omega u_0$ and $o_\omega - u_\omega = c_\omega v_\omega$. Also, the parallelogram $P_\omega$ has base $e_{P_\omega}(3\pi/2)$ connecting $O = (0, 0)$ to $l(\pi/2, 0) \cap l(\omega, 1) = (\sec \omega, 0)$, and consequently $c_\omega = \sec \omega - \tan \omega$. ^pro-omega-gap

_Proof._ The points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega$ (resp. $O, o_\omega - v_\omega, o_\omega$) forms a right triangle with base one and angle $(\pi/2 - \omega) / 2$. Let $P := l(\pi/2, 0) \cap l(\omega, 1)$, then $P = (\sec \omega, 0)$ and the points $o_\omega, o_\omega - v_0, P$ forms a right triangle with base one and angle $\omega$. This implies $c_\omega = \sec \omega - \tan \omega$. □

> __Definition [cap-clipped].__ Let $\omega \in [\sec^{-1}(2.2), \pi/2)$ and $d \in [0, \tan \omega]$ be arbitrary. Define the region ^def-cap-clipped
$$
R_{\omega, d} := P_\omega \cap H_-(0, d + c_\omega) \cap H_-(\omega + \pi/2, d + c_\omega).
$$

We will use the cutoff $\omega < \tan^{-1}(2.2)$. As $\omega$ gets farther away from $\pi/2$, the triangular region $\Delta_\omega$ gets bigger. This is why we need a better estimate  

> __Definition [d-min].__ Let $\omega \in [\sec^{-1}(2.2), \pi/2)$ be arbitrary. Define $d_{\omega, \min}$ as $1.25$ if $\omega < \tan^{-1}(2.2)$ and $1.1$ otherwise. ^def-d-min

> __Lemma [cap-support-elementary-bound].__ Let $\omega \in [\sec^{-1}(2.2), \pi/2)$ be arbitrary. Then for $d = d_{\omega, \min}$, the set $R_{\omega, d}$ have area $\leq 2.2$. ^lem-cap-support-elementary-bound

_Proof._ We first prove the case $\omega \geq \tan^{-1}(2.2)$. It suffices to show that the region $R_{\omega, d}$ with $d=1.1$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^lem-cap-support-elementary-bound]] have area $\leq 2.2$. Define $Q_1$ as the convex quadrilateral with vertices $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega, o_\omega - v_\omega$. Define $Q_2$ as the rectangle with vertices $A := o_\omega - v_0 + 1.1 u_0$, $B := o_\omega + 1.1 u_0$, $o_\omega, o_\omega - v_0$. Then $|R_{\omega, 1.1}| = |Q_1| + 2|Q_2 \cap R_\omega|$.

Check that $Q_1$ is contained in the right triangle with vertices $o_\omega$, $o_\omega - v_0$, $o_\omega - v_0 - \cot \omega \cdot u_0$ of base one, height $\cot \omega$ and angle $\pi/2  - \omega$. So $|Q_1| \leq (\cot \omega) / 2$. Check $1.1 \leq \tan \omega$ by calculating $\tan(\sec^{-1}(2.2)) > 1.959 > 1.1$. So $|Q_2 \setminus R_\omega|$ is a right-angled triangle with base $1.1$ and angle $\pi/2 - \omega$ of area $(1.21 \cot \omega) / 2$. Now we have
$$
\begin{align*}
|R_{\omega, 1.1}| & = |Q_1| + 2|Q_2 \cap R_\omega| \\
& \leq |Q_1| + 2 (|R_\omega| - |Q_2 \setminus R_\omega|) \\
& \leq (\cot \omega)/2 + 2 (1.1 - (1.21 \cot \omega) / 2) < 2.2
\end{align*}
$$
proving the goal.

Now we prove the case $\omega < \tan^{-1}(2.2)$. We calculate the area of $R_{\omega, d}$ explicitly. The region $R_{\omega, d}$ is the parallelogram $P_\omega$ of base $\sec \omega$ and height one, subtracted by two right-angled triangles of base $b := \tan \omega - d$ and height $b \cot \omega$. So the area of $R_{\omega, d}$ is $\sec \omega - (\tan \omega - d)^2 \cot \omega$. Now it suffices to show that the area is $< 2.2$ for $d = d_{\omega, \min} = 1.25$. Since $\omega \in [\sec^{-1}(2.2), \tan^{-1}(2.2)]$, the following estimates hold.
$$
\begin{gather*}
2.2 \leq \sec \omega \leq \sec(\tan^{-1}(2.2)) = \sqrt{146}/5 \\
2.2 \geq \tan \omega \geq \tan(\sec^{-1}(2.2)) = \sqrt{96}/5
\end{gather*}
$$
Now
$$
\begin{align*}
|R_{\omega, 1.25}| & = \sec \omega - (\tan \omega - 1.25)^2 \cot \omega \\
& \leq \sqrt{146}/5 - \left(\sqrt{96}/5 - 1.25\right)^2 / 2.2 \\
& = 2.18774\dots < 2.2
\end{align*}
$$
completing the proof. □

> __Lemma [calculation-convex].__ For any constant $d \geq 1$, the functions $(1 - d \cot \omega)^2$ and $\cos^2 \omega$ are convex on $\omega \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$. ^lem-calculation-convex

_Proof._ To see the convexity of $(1 - d \cot \omega)^2$, compute the second derivative
$$
\begin{align*}
\frac{d^2}{d \omega^2} (1 - d \cot \omega)^2 & = 2 d \csc^2 \omega  \left( d \csc^2 \omega  + 2 d \cot^2 \omega  - 2 \cot  \omega  \right) \\
& = 2 d \csc^4 \omega  \left( d + 2 d \cos^2 \omega  - 2 \sin  \omega  \cos  \omega  \right) \\
& = 2 d \csc^4 \omega \left( 2 d + d \cos (2\omega) - \sin(2 \omega) \right)
\end{align*}
$$
which is nonnegative. It is easy to check that $\cos^2 \omega = (1 + \cos(2\omega))/2$ is convex. □

> __Definition [calculation-variables].__ Let $\omega \in [\sec^{-1}(2.2), \pi/2)$ and $d \in [d_{\omega, \min}, \tan \omega]$ be arbitary. Define the values $r_y, g \in \mathbb{R}$ and $q_0, q_1 \in \mathbb{R}^2$ depending solely on $\omega$ and $d$ as follows. ^def-calculation-variables
$$
\begin{gather*}
q_0 := o_\omega - v_0 + du_0 \\
r_y := 1 - d \cot \omega \\
g = \sqrt{1 - r_y^2} \\
q_1 := o_\omega - g u_0 \\
\end{gather*}
$$

> __Lemma [calculation-inequalities].__ Let $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$ and $d \in [d_{\omega, \min}, \tan \omega]$ be arbitary such that $r_y \geq 0$. Then the following inequalities are true. ^lem-calculation-inequalities
>
> 1. $(q_0 - (o_\omega - v_0)) \cdot u_{\pi / 2 - \omega} \geq 1$
> 2.  $(q_1 - (o_\omega - u_\omega)) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$

_Proof._ (1) By the definition of $q_0$, the inequality to show is $d u_0 \cdot u_{\pi/2-\omega} \geq 1$ and $u_0 \cdot u_{\pi/2 - \omega} = \sin \omega$. So we need to check $d_{\omega, \min} \sin \omega \geq 1$. Depending on whether $\omega < \tan^{-1}(2.2)$ or not, computations
$$
1.25 \sin (\sec^{-1}(2.2)) = 1.1134\dots \geq 1 \qquad  1.1 \sin(\tan^{-1}(2.2)) = 1.0014\dots \geq 1
$$
prove the result.

(2) By the definition of $q_1$, the inequality to show is $(u_\omega - g u_0) \cdot v_{\pi/2 - \omega} \geq 1$. Computing the left-hand side gives $- \cos(2\omega) + g \cos \omega \geq 1$. Rearranging the terms, we need to prove $g \geq 2 \cos \omega$ as $(1 + \cos(2\omega)) / \cos \omega = 2 \cos \omega$. Both $g$ and $2 \cos \omega$ are nonnegative, so we only need to compare their squares and prove $g^2 = 1 - r_y^2 \geq 4 \cos^2 \omega$. Since $0 \leq r_y = 1 - d \cot \omega \leq 1 - d_{\omega, \min} \cot \omega$, it suffices to prove ^eqn-omega-calc
$$
1 \geq (1 - d_{\omega, \min} \cot \omega)^2 + 4 \cos^2 \omega
$$
on $\omega \in [\arctan(2.2), \pi/2)$.

As $d_{\omega, \min}$ is the constant $1.25$ or $1.1$ on each interval $\omega \in (\sec^{-1} (2.2), \tan^{-1} (2.2)]$ or $\omega \in (\tan^{-1} (2.2), \pi/2]$, both $(1 - d_{\omega, \min} \cot \omega)^2$ and $4 \cos^2 \omega$ are convex functions of $\omega$ on each interval by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^lem-calculation-convex]]. So it suffices to check [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^eqn-omega-calc]] at the four endpoints, which are true by following calculations.
$$
\begin{gather*}
(1 - 1.25 \cot(\sec^{-1}(2.2)))^2 + 4 \cos^2 (\sec^{-1}(2.2)) < 0.9576 < 1 \\
(1 - 1.25 \cot(\tan^{-1}(2.2)))^2 + 4 \cos^2 (\tan^{-1}(2.2)) < 0.8714 < 1 \\
(1 - 1.1 \cot(\tan^{-1}(2.2)))^2 + 4 \cos^2 (\tan^{-1}(2.2)) < 0.9350 < 1 \\
(1 - 1.1 \cot(\pi/2))^2 + 4 \cos^2 (\pi/2) = 1
\end{gather*}
$$
□

_Proof._ (of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]]) We first show that at least one of $p_K(0) \geq d_{\omega, \min} + c_\omega$ or $p_K(\omega + \pi/2) \geq d_{\omega, \min} + c_\omega$ should be true. Assume the contrary. Then the cap $K$ is contained in the set $R_{\omega, d}$ with $d = d_{\omega, \min}$ in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^def-cap-clipped]]. But by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^lem-cap-support-elementary-bound]] the area of $R_{\omega, d}$ is bounded from above by $2.2$, contradicting the assumption $\mathcal{A}_\omega(K) > 2.2$.

So we have either $p_K(0) \geq d_{\omega, \min} + c_\omega$ or $p_K(\omega + \pi/2) \geq d_{\omega, \min} + c_\omega$. Appeal to the mirror reflection of $K$ and assume without loss of generality that $p_K(0) \geq d_{\omega, \min} + c_\omega$. Now define $d := p_K(0) - c_\omega$ so that $d \geq d_{\omega, \min}$ in particular. We now have $A_K^-(0) = q_0$ where $q_0 := o_\omega - v_0 + d u_0$ is in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]]. In particular, $q_0$ is in $K$.

Define the intersection $r := l_K(0) \cap l_K(\omega)$. Then $r, o_\omega, o_\omega + d u_0$ forms a right-angled triangle. Solving for the coordinates of $r$, we get $r = (d + c_\omega, r_y)$ where $r_y$ is defined as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]]. Since $K$ is a convex subset of $P_\omega$ we have $0 \leq r_y \leq 1$. Define $g := \sqrt{1 - r_y^2}$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]] and the point $s := q_0 - g u_0$, so that the triangle with vertices $s, q_0, r$ is right-angled at $q_0$ with base $g$, height $r_y$ and side of length 1.

The main idea is that the point $s$ is not contained in $Q_K^-(t)$ for any $t \in (0, \omega)$, so that $g \leq w_K^{\circ}$. We prove this rigorously. Take any $t \in (0, \omega)$. Since $r := l_K(0) \cap l_K(\omega)$ and $K$ is a convex body, we have $p_K(t) \leq r \cdot u_t$. So 
$$
p_K(t) - 1 \leq r \cdot u_t - 1 \leq r \cdot u_t - (r - s) \cdot u_t = s \cdot u_t
$$
as $r-s$ is a unit vector. Thus $s \not\in H_-^{\circ}(p_K(t) - 1, t)$ and $s$ is further than $W_K(t) = b_K(t) \cap l(\pi/2, 0)$ in the direction of $u_0$. This with $s = q_0 - g u_0$ and $W_K(t) = q_0 - w_K(t)u_0$ implies $g \leq w_K(t)$. Thus we get $g \leq w_K^{\circ}$.

By XX we have $w_K^{\circ} \leq \sigma_K(\pi/2)$. Define $q_1 := o_\omega - g u_0$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^def-calculation-variables]], then as $o_\omega = C_K^-(0)$ is the rightmost vertex of $K$ on the edge $e_K(\pi/2)$, we also have $q_1 \in K$. We now have two points $q_0, q_1$ in $K$, and the set $X = \left\{ q_1, q_2 \right\}$ is a subset of $K$. From now on, fix the angle $t = \pi/2 - \omega \in (0, \pi/4) \subset (0, \omega)$ and take the quadrant $Q_X^-(t)$. By $X \subset K$ we have $Q_X^-(t) \subseteq Q_K^-(t)$. So the proof is done if we show that the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega$ are in the closure of $Q_X^-(t)$.

We will show that $q_1 - q_0 = - \alpha u_t + \beta v_t$ for real coefficients $\alpha, \beta \geq 0$. By definition of $q_0$ and $q_1$ we have $q_1 - q_0 = v_0 - (d + g) u_0$ where $d + g \geq d \geq 1.1$. So the vector $q_1 - q_0$ is in the convex cone generated by $-u_0$ and $v_0 - u_0$. Because the angle $t = \pi/2 - \omega$ is in between $0$ and $\pi/4$, both $-u_0$ and $v_0 - u_0$ are in the convex cone generated by $-u_t$ and $v_t$. So the vector $q_1 - q_0$ is in the convex cone generated by $-u_t$ and $v_t$, and we have $\alpha, \beta \geq 0$.

Now by $q_1 - q_0 = - \alpha u_t + \beta v_t$ for $\alpha, \beta \geq 0$, and the definition of $L_X(t)$, the point $q_0$ lies in the outer wall $a_X(t)$ of $L_X(t)$ and $q_1$ lies in the outer wall $c_X(t)$ of $L_X(t)$. Thus we can write ^eqn-quadrant
$$
Q_X^-(t) = H_-^{\circ}(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1) \cap H_-^{\circ}(t + \pi/2, q_1 \cdot v_t - 1).
$$

We now show that the three points $O, o_\omega - v_0 = c_\omega u_0, o_\omega - u_\omega = c_\omega v_\omega$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^pro-omega-gap]]) are contained in the closure of $Q_X^-(t)$ where $c_\omega > 0$. By [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^eqn-quadrant]], it suffices to show that $c_\omega u_0 \in H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$ and $c_\omega v_\omega \in H_-(t, q_0 \cdot u_t - 1)$, both are true by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^lem-calculation-inequalities]]. □

The main [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]] is a consequence of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]].

_Proof._ (of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/01. Introduction/00. Preface#^thm-angle]])

Take the monotone sofa $S_\omega$ with cap $K_\omega$, attaining the maximum area among monotone sofas of rotation angle $\omega$. Then by [[a. Angle Hypothesis/15. Proof of the Main Theorem/00. Preface#^thm-balanced-consumed]], either $|S_{\omega}| < 2.2$ or $S_\omega$ admits another movement of rotation angle $\pi/2$. In either way we have $|S_\omega| \leq |S_{\pi/2}|$, as $2.2 \leq \mu_G \leq |S_{\pi/2}|$ and $S_{\pi/2}$ attains the maximum area among sofas of rotation angle $\pi/2$. □