Here, we prepare the [[#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] that captures the balancedness argument of Gerver using the notion of a _Nef polygon_. A Nef polygon is a subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ that can be obtained by applying a finite number of boolean operations (e.g. taking complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus X$ of a set $X$, or taking the intersection $X_1 \cap X_2$ of two sets $X_1, X_2$) to a finite collection of closed half-planes. We give the following formal definition.

> __Definition [boolean-function].__ Let $\textsf{true}$ and $\textsf{false}$ be the constants denoting the truth value of a predicate (e.g., $1+1=2$ is $\textsf{true}$, but $1 + 2 = 4$ is $\textsf{false}$). An _$n$-ary boolean function_ $\mathcal{E}$ is a function from $\left\{ \textsf{true}, \textsf{false} \right\}^n$ to $\left\{ \textsf{true}, \textsf{false} \right\}$.
> ^def-boolean-function

> __Definition [nef-polygon].__ For any $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and $n$ closed half-planes $H_1, \dots, H_n$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$, define the set 
$$
\mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n) := \left\{ p \in \mathbb{R}^2 : \mathcal{E}(p \in H_1, \dots,p \in H_n) \text{ is } \textsf{true} \right\}.
$$
> Call any such set $X = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ a _Nef polygon_. ^def-nef-polygon

For our use, we introduce the notion of a _simple_ Nef polygon.

> __Definition [simple-nef-polygon].__ Call a Nef polygon $X$ _simple_ if $X = \mathcal{E}(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ for an $n$-ary boolean function $\mathcal{E}$ and closed half-planes $H_1, \dots, H_n$ with different boundaries $l_1, \dots, l_n$.
> ^def-simple-nef-polygon

A line $l$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is a Nef polygon, since we can intersect the two closed half-planes $H_l^+$ and $H_l^-$ with boundary $l$ to express $l = H_l^+ \cap H_l^-$. However, $l$ is not simple because the half-planes $H_l^+$ and $H_l^-$ used in the expression of $l$ use the same boundary. Using [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^def-simple-nef-polygon]], we can spell out the idea of balancedness by Gerver precisely.

> __Definition [hausdorff-measure-one].__ Let $\lambda^1$ be the Hausdorff measure of dimension one on $\mathbb{R}^2$. That is, if $X$ is a disjoint union of finite line segments, then $\lambda^1(X)$ is the sum of all lengths of such line segments. ^def-hausdorff-measure-one

> __Theorem [nef-polygon-area-diff].__ Fix an arbitrary simple Nef polygon $P = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ defined with $n$ closed half-planes $H_i = H(t_i, h_i)$ for $1 \leq i \leq n$, each of different boundary $l_i$. Assume also that $P$ is closed. Then there is an absolute constant $\epsilon = \epsilon(P) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff
> 
> Let $\delta_1, \dots, \delta_n$ be real values with absolute values less than $\epsilon$. Define $P' = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1', \dots, H_n')$ where $H_i' = H(t_i, h_i + \delta_i)$  for $1 \leq i \leq n$. Then we have
$$
\left| P' \right| = |P| + \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda^1(\partial P \cap l_i ) \cdot \delta_i + O(\delta_1^2 + \delta_2^2 + \dots + \delta_n^2).
$$

The proof of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] will be done by proving smaller cases and building up on it.

> __Lemma [nef-polygon-half-plane].__ Let $H_0 = H(t, h)$ be a half-plane with boundary $l_0$. Let $X = \mathcal{E}_X(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ be a (not necessarily simple) Nef polygon defined with $m$ closed half-planes $H_i$ with boundaries $l_i$ ($1 \leq i \leq n$) different from $l_0$. Then there exists an absolute constant $\epsilon = \epsilon(H_0, X) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^lem-nef-polygon-half-plane
> 
> Let $\delta$ be any real value with $|\delta| < \epsilon$. Let $H_0' = H(t, h + \delta)$. Then
$$
|H_0' \cap X| = |H_0 \cap X| + \lambda^1(l_0 \cap X) \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$

_Proof._ Let $\mathcal{L}$ be the collection $\left\{ l_1, \dots, l_n \right\}$ of the boundaries of $H_i$ for all $1 \leq i \leq n$. Since no lines in $\mathcal{L}$ are equal to $l_0$, the line $l_0$ and the union $\cup \mathcal{L}$ of all lines in $\mathcal{L}$ intersect in a finite set of points. Thus, without loss of generality we can replace $X$ with $X \setminus \cup \mathcal{L}$ as the values $|H_0' \cap X|$, $|H_0 \cap X|$ and $\lambda^1 (l_0 \cap X)$ will not change. By doing so, $X$ is a finite disjoint union of open convex polygons, each bounded by some lines in $\mathcal{L}$. Using the additivity of measures, we can also assume without loss of generality that $X$ is an open convex polygon with edges in $\mathcal{L}$. The function $f(x) = \lambda^1(l(t, x) \cap X)$ is now a function of $x \in \mathbb{R}$ which is Lipschitz near $x = h$, as the edges of $X$ are not equal to $l_0 = l(t, h)$. Moreover, we have
$$
|H(t, x) \cap X| = \int_{-\infty}^x f(u)\,du
$$
by Cavalieri's principle. Approximating this value $g(x) := |H(t, x) \cap X|$ near $x = h$, we get the linear estimate $g(h + \delta) = g(h) + f(h) \delta + O(\delta^2)$ as claimed in the statement. □

The following [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]] is a special case of [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] where we set $\delta_i = 0$ for all index $i$ except for $i=j$.

> __Lemma [nef-polygon-single-edge].__ Let $P = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ be a simple Nef polygon defined with $n$ closed half-planes $H_i = H(t_i, h_i)$ for $1 \leq i \leq n$, each of different boundary $l_i$. Assume also that $P$ is closed. Fix an arbitrary index $1 \leq j \leq n$. There exists an absolute constant $\epsilon_j = \epsilon_j(P, j) > 0$ such that the following holds. ^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge
> 
> Let $\delta_j$ be any real value with $|\delta_j| < \epsilon_j$. Define $P'_j = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_{j-1}, H_j', H_{j+1}, \dots, H_n)$ where $H_j' = H(t_j, h_j + \delta_j)$. Then we have
$$
\left| P'_j \right| = |P| + \lambda^1(\partial P \cap l_j) \cdot \delta_j + O(\delta_j^2).
$$

_Proof._ The lines $l_i$ for all index $i \neq j$ divide the plane into open polygons $R_1, R_2, \dots, R_N$ with $N \leq 2^{n-1}$. Fix an arbitrary region $R_k$. We will show ^eqn-rk
$$
\left| P_j' \cap R_k \right| = |P \cap R_k| + \lambda^1( \partial P \cap l_j \cap R_k) \cdot \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$
for any real value $\delta$ with absolute value less than a positive constant $\epsilon_{k} = \epsilon_{k}(P, j, R_k) > 0$. Once [[#^eqn-rk]] is shown, we can take $\epsilon_j > 0$ to be the minimum of $\epsilon_{k}$ over all $k$ and sum [[#^eqn-rk]] over all $k$ to complete the proof. Note that the boundary of any region $R_k$ and the line $l_j$ intersect in a finite number of points, so adding $\lambda^1( \partial P \cap l_j \cap R_k)$ over all $k$ gives $\lambda^1(\partial P \cap l_j)$.

Take an arbitrary point $p \in R_k$. For any index $i \neq j$, by the definition of $R_k$, the predicate $p \in H_i$ is either $\textsf{true}$ or $\textsf{false}$ no matter which $p$ in $R_k$ we take. Let $c_i$ be the constant $\textsf{true}$ or $\textsf{false}$ that is equivalent to $p \in H_i$. Define the predicate
$$
\mathcal{G}(Q) :=  \mathcal{E}_P(c_1, \dots, c_{j-1}, Q, c_{j+1}, \dots, c_n)
$$
that depends on a predicate variable $Q$. Observe that the predicate $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j)$ is equivalent to $p \in P$ and the predicate $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j')$ is equivalent to $p \in P_j'$ (given that $p \in R_k$). As $c_i$ for all $i \neq j$ are constants, the predicate $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is equivalent to one of $\textsf{true}$, $\textsf{false}$, $Q$, or the negation of $Q$. We divide the proof into the four cases.

If $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $\textsf{true}$, then both $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j)$ and $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j')$ are true for any $p \in R_k$, so $R_k$ is an open subset of both $P$ and $P_j'$. Consequently $\partial P \cap R_k$ is empty and [[#^eqn-rk]] holds. Similarly, if $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is false, then both $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j)$ and $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j')$ are false for any $p \in R_k$, so $R_k$ is an open set disjoint from both $P$ and $P_j'$. Consequently $\partial P \cap R_k$ is empty and [[#^eqn-rk]] again holds.

If $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $Q$, then for any $p \in R_k$ the predicate $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j) \Leftrightarrow p \in H_j$ is equivalent to $p \in P$. Consequently, we have $P \cap R_k = H_j \cap R_k$. Likewise, from $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j') \Leftrightarrow p \in H_j'$ we get $P_j' \cap R_k = H_j' \cap R_k$. Use [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-half-plane]] to get
$$
|H_j' \cap R_k| = |H_j \cap R_k| + \lambda^1(l_j \cap R_k) \delta + O(\delta^2).
$$
Observe $l_j \cap R_k \subseteq \partial P$ as $P \cap R_k = H_j \cap R_k$. For any point $q \in l_j \cap R_k$, a point in the neighborhood of $q$ is always in $R_k$ and outside $H_j$, and another always in $R_k$ and inside $H_j$. Now $\partial P \cap l_j \cap R_k = l_j \cap R_k$ and [[#^eqn-rk]] holds.

If $\mathcal{G}(Q)$ is $\lnot Q$, then for any $p \in R_k$ we have $\mathcal{G}(p \in H_j) \Leftrightarrow p \not\in H_j$ so $P \cap R_k = R_k \setminus H_j$. Observe that $P$ is closed so $P \cap R_k$ is closed in the subspace topology of $R_k$. So if $l_j \cap R_k$ is nonempty, then $R_k \setminus H_j$ is a proper open subspace of $\mathbb{R}^2$ so cannot be closed inside $R_k$, and we get contradiction. Thus $l_j \cap R_k$ should be empty. Now use [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-half-plane]] to get $|H_j' \cap R_k| = |H_j \cap R_k| + O(\delta^2)$, and subtract this by $|R_k|$ to prove [[#^eqn-rk]]. □

Now we assemble [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]] to prove the main [[#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]] on balancing Nef Polygon.

_Proof._ (of [[#^thm-nef-polygon-area-diff]]) For every $1 \leq j \leq n$, take the constant $\epsilon_j > 0$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]] and take $\epsilon > 0$ smaller than all $\epsilon_j$ (we will take the precise $\epsilon$ later). Take arbitrary $\delta_1, \dots, \delta_n$ of absolute value less than $\epsilon$. Define the polygon $P_j'$ as in [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]]. The idea is to compare the difference between $A := \sum_{j=1}^n (|P_j'| - |P|)$ and $B := |P'| - |P|$. We measure how each point $p \in \mathbb{R}^2$ is counted in $A$ and $B$. Define $J_p$ as the set of indices $j$ where the predicates $p \in H_j$ and $p \in H_j'$ are _not_ equivalent (one is true and the other is false). Define $S_0, S_1, S_{\geq 2}$ as the set of points $p$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$ such that the size of $J_p$ is 0, 1, or $\geq 2$ respectively. Now the sets $S_0$, $S_1$, $S_{\geq 2}$ partition $\mathbb{R}^2$.

Take any $p \in S_0$. Since $J_p$ is an empty set, $p \in H_j$ and $p \in H_j'$ are equivalent for all indices $j$. So the predicates $p \in P$, $p \in P_1', \dots, p \in P_n'$, and $p \in P'$ are all equivalent, and the contributions of $p$ to $A$ and $B$ both zero and even out.

Take any $p \in S_1$, and let $j$ be the only index where the predicates $p \in H_j$ and $p \in H_j'$ differ (one is true, and the other is false). So for all $i \neq j$, $p \in H_i$ and $p \in H_i'$ are equivalent. From this, we get that $p \in P$ if and only if $p \in P_i'$ for all $i \neq j$ by the definitions $P = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_n)$ and $P'_i = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_i', \dots, H_n)$. Likewise, $p \in P_j'$ if and only if $p \in P'$ by the definitions $P_j' = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1, \dots, H_j', \dots, H_n)$ and $P' = \mathcal{E}_P(H_1', \dots, H_j', \dots, H_n')$. So the contributions of $p$ to $A$ and $B$ even out.

We now handle the case $p \in S_{\geq 2}$. For every $1 \leq j \leq n$, let $B_j$ be the infinite closed strip of width $\delta_j \leq \epsilon$ bounded by $l_j = l(t_j, h_j)$ and $l(t_j, h_j + \delta_j)$. For every $1 \leq i < j \leq n$, define $P_{i, j} = B_i \cap B_j$. Now take any $p \in S_{\geq 2}$. Then by taking two different indices $i < j$ in $J_p$ we obtain that $p \in P_{i, j}$. So we have $S_{\geq 2} \subseteq \bigcup_{1 \leq i < j \leq n} P_{i, j}$. By taking $\epsilon > 0$ sufficiently small, we can guarantee that each $P_{i, j}$ is bounded of area $O(\delta_i \delta_j)$; if $l_i$ and $l_j$ are parallel, then sufficiently small $\epsilon$ guarantees that $P_{i, j}$ is empty, and if $l_i$ and $l_j$ makes an angle of $\theta$ then $P_{i, j}$ has area exactly $\delta_i \delta_j / \cos \theta$. Now $|S_{\geq 2}| \leq \sum_{1 \leq i, j \leq n} |P_{i, j}| = O(\delta_1^2 + \delta_2^2 + \dots + \delta_n^2)$.

From the contribution analysis above, we obtain that the difference between $A$ and $B$ is at most $|S_{\geq 2}|$. Use this and apply [[a. Angle Hypothesis/10. Balanced Sofas/01. Nef Polygon#^lem-nef-polygon-single-edge]] to each $|P_j'|$ to get 
$$
|P'| - |P| = \sum_{j=1}^n (|P_j'| - |P|) + O(|S_{\geq 2}|) = \sum_{i=1}^n \lambda^1(\partial P \cap l_i ) \cdot \delta_i + O(\delta_1^2 + \delta_2^2 + \dots + \delta_n^2)
$$
and conclude the proof. □