We show that any intersection $\mathcal{I}(S)$ of a moving sofa $S$ is equal to the _cap_ $K$ of $S$ minus the _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of $K$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotonization-structure]]). We first define the notion of _cap_ as a kind of convex body.

> __Definition [cap].__ A _cap_ $K$ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> 1. $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\omega + \pi) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$.
> 2. $K$ is an intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles in $J_\omega \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$, where $J_\omega$ is from [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-set-j]].

We now show that the set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ from a moving sofa $S$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-cap-sofa]]) is a cap, justifying calling $\mathcal{C}(S)$ _the cap of_ $S$.

> __Theorem [cap-hallway-intersection].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, the set $\mathcal{C}(S)$ in [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-cap-sofa]] is a cap with rotation angle $\omega$ as in [[#^def-cap]]. ^thm-cap-hallway-intersection

_Proof._ The second condition of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^def-cap]] on $\mathcal{C}(S)$ is satisfied by [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-cap-sofa]]. Since $S$ is in standard position, it suffices to check $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(\omega + \pi) = p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(3\pi/2) = 0$ in the first condition of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^def-cap]].

We first prove the case $\omega = \pi/2$. Since $p_S(\pi/2) = 1$ and $S \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$ by [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^pro-cap-contains-sofa]], we can take a point $q \in S \cap l(\pi/2, 1) \subseteq \mathcal{C}(S)$. For any $t \in [0, \pi/2]$, each $Q_S^+(t)$ is closed in the direction of $-v_0$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-closed-in-direction]]). This with $q \in \mathcal{C}(S)$ implies that $q - v_0 \in \mathcal{C}(S)$. Note that $q - v_0 \in l(\pi/2, 0)$, so $q - v_0 \in \mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq P_{\pi/2}$ implies $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(3\pi/2) = 0$ as we desired.

We now prove the case $\omega < \pi/2$. Since $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$, we can take two points $q_\omega \in S \cap l(\omega, 1)$ and $q_{\pi/2} \in S \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$. Observe that the three points $q_\omega, o_\omega, q_{\pi/2}$ are in monotonically decreasing order of $x$-coordinates and form an angle of $\omega + \pi/2$. Take any tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ with angle $t \in [0, \omega]$. Then $Q_S^+(t)$ should contain both $q_\omega, q_{\pi/2} \in S$, so we also have $Q_S^+(t) \ni o_\omega$. This implies $o_\omega \in \mathcal{C}(S)$. For any $t \in [0, \omega]$, each $Q_S^+(t)$ is closed in the direction of $v_0$ and $u_\omega$ ([[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^def-closed-in-direction]]). So $o_\omega \in \mathcal{C}(S)$ implies $o_\omega - v_0, o_\omega - u_\omega \in \mathcal{C}(S)$. This with $\mathcal{C}(S) \subseteq H \cap V_\omega$ implies $p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(\omega + \pi) = p_{\mathcal{C}(S)}(3\pi/2) = 0$ as we desired. □

> __Definition [cap-real-definition].__  With [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]], call $\mathcal{C}(S)$ the _cap of the moving sofa_ $S$. ^def-cap-real-definition

We now define the niche of a cap. Note that the following fan $F_\omega$ contains $H \cap V_\omega$ in particular.

> __Definition [fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _fan_ $F_\omega := H_+(\pi, 0) \cap H_+(\pi/2, 0)$. ^def-fan

> __Definition [niche].__ Let $K$ be any cap with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$. Define the _niche_ of $K$ as ^def-niche
$$
\mathcal{N}(K) := F_{\omega} \cap \bigcup_{t \in (0, \omega)} Q^-_K(t).
$$

> __Theorem [monotonization-structure].__ Let $S$ be a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotone sofa $\mathcal{I}(S)$ from $S$ is equal to $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ where $K := \mathcal{C}(S)$ is the cap of $S$. ^thm-monotonization-structure

_Proof._ By writing each $L_S(t)$ as $Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$, the set $\mathcal{I}(S)$ of $S$ can be represented as the following subtraction of two sets. ^eqn-monotonization
$$
\begin{split}
\mathcal{I}(S) & = H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} L_S(t) \\
& = \left( H \cap V_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^+_S(t) \right) \setminus \left( F_\omega \cap \bigcup_{t \in [0, \omega]} Q^-_S(t) \right)
\end{split}
$$
By [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^lem-cap-same-support-function]] we have $Q_S^-(t) = Q_K^-(t)$. So we have $\mathcal{I}(S) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$ by the definitions of $K$ and $\mathcal{N}(K)$. □

A moving sofa $S$ and its intersection $\mathcal{I}(S)$ shares the same cap.

> __Proposition [monotonization-cap].__ For any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ in standard position, we have $\mathcal{C}(\mathcal{I}(S)) = \mathcal{C}(S)$. ^pro-monotonization-cap

_Proof._ Consequence of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^lem-cap-same-support-function]]. □

A monotone sofa is its cap subtracted by its niche. Note that unlike [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotonization-structure]], the following theorem does not depend on another moving sofa.

> __Theorem [monotone-sofa-structure].__ For any monotone sofa $S$ with cap $K := \mathcal{C}(K)$, we have $S = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$. ^thm-monotone-sofa-structure

_Proof._ Let $S = \mathcal{I}(S_0)$ for some moving sofa $S_0$ in standard position. By [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^pro-monotonization-cap]], the cap $K$ of $S$ is also the cap $\mathcal{C}(S_0)$ of $S_0$. So by [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotonization-structure]] we have $S = \mathcal{I}(S_0) = K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$. □

Taking the intersection twice does not help in enlarging a sofa.

> __Theorem [monotonization-idempotent].__ For any moving sofa $S$ in standard position, we have $\mathcal{I}(\mathcal{I}(S)) = \mathcal{I}(S)$. ^thm-monotonization-idempotent

_Proof._ Let $S' := \mathcal{I}(S)$ so that $S'$ is a montone sofa with cap $K'$. Then $\mathcal{I}(S') = K' \setminus \mathcal{N}(K') = S'$ by [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotonization-structure]] and [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotone-sofa-structure]]. □

So taking the intersection $\mathcal{I}(-)$ enlarges any moving sofa to monotone sofas and fixes monotone sofas.

> __Theorem [monotone-sofa-fixpoint].__ For any moving sofa $S$ in standard position, $S \subseteq \mathcal{I}(S)$ and the equality holds if and only if $S$ is a monotone sofa. ^thm-monotone-sofa-fixpoint

_Proof._ Consequence of [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/10. Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization]], [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^def-monotone-sofa]], and [[b. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone Sofa/12. Cap and Niche#^thm-monotonization-idempotent]]. □