# Structure Hypotheses

The niche of Gerver's sofa consists of a large arch in the middle formed by the inner corner $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ of the rotating hallway, and the envelope $\mathbf{d}_K$ (resp. $\mathbf{b}_K$) on the left (resp. right) side formed by the inner left wall $d_K(t)$ (resp. right wall $b_K(t)$) of the rotating hallway. The _structure hypotheses_ incrementally states that a sofa $S$ of maximum area follows more properties matching this property of Gerver's sofa. Here, we fix a maximum-are monotone sofa $S$ which is balanced with rotation angle $\pi/2$.

> __Theorem [inner-corner-left-right].__ Let $l_K$ be the vertical line passing through the point $\mathbf{x}_K(45^\circ)$.  Then $\mathbf{x}_{S}(t)$ is strictly on the left side of $\mathbf{x}_{S}(45^\circ)$ for $t > 45^\circ$. Also, $\mathbf{x}_S(t)$ is strictly on the right side of $\mathbf{x}_{S}(45^\circ)$ for $t < 45^\circ$. ^thm-inner-corner-left-right

Define . With [[xx. Structure Theorem/01. Overview#^thm-inner-corner-left-right]], 

Next, the sides $d(t)$ for $0 < t < 45^\circ$ forms the envelope of a convex body in the side $L$. 

Next, we prove that $\mathbf{x}(110^\circ)$ is never on the frontline of any $d(t)$. Now $\mathbf{x}(110^\circ)$ is not below $\mathbf{d}$ but $\mathbf{x}(180^\circ)$ is either on or below $\mathbf{d}$, there is some constant $110^\circ < \tau_L < 180^\circ$ such that it meets 

# Strategy for Proving Structure Hypothesis

If any of the result is assumed to be false, the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1$ turns out to be 

Assume that a maximum sofa rotates the full $\pi/2$. This is the shape of the niche of a random sofa. As one can see, the structure resembles the niche of Gerver's sofa, in the sense that it is formed by the arch of $\mathbf{x}$, cut out in both ends by convex curves on left and right. 