A sofa can be seen as the intersection of rotating hallways (see [[01. Moving sofa problem#^fig-monotone-sofa]]). More precisely, by [[10. Monotone Sofa]], a monotone sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega$ is the intersection of the parallelogram $P_\omega$ and the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ with angles $t \in [0, \omega]$. Fix a finite list $\Theta$ of angles
$$0 = \theta_0 < \theta_1 < \theta_2 < \cdots < \theta_n = \omega$$
and take the intersection $S'$ of $P_\omega$ and the hallways $L_i = L_S(\theta_i)$ rotated counterclockwise by angles of $\theta_i$ for all $0 \leq i \leq n$. Then $S'$ is a polygon enclosing $S$ which is completely determined by the locations $\mathbf{x}_i = \mathbf{x}_S(\theta_i)$ of hallways. So the area $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(\mathbf{x}_1, \dots, \mathbf{x}_n)$ of $S'$ is an upper bound of the area $\mathcal{A}$ of $S$ with parameters $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2, \dots, \mathbf{x}_n$.

While the exact details differ[^Their software can also handle sofas of rotation angle in an interval], [[@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018]] essentially gives an algorithm that iteratively computes an upper estimate of $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ that converges to actual $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$. Their Theorem xx amounts to implying that as the partition $\Theta$ of $[0, \omega]$ refines, the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_\Theta$ of $\mathcal{A}$ converges uniformly to $\mathcal{A}$. 

shows the followings to show that their computer-assisted upper bound converges to the actual solution.
1. As the partition $\Theta$ gets refined more and more, the maximum value of $A_\Theta$ converges to the actual area $\mathcal{A}$  
2. Their algorithm iteratively updates an upper estimate of $A_\Theta$ that converges to $A_\Theta$, which is implemented as `SofaBounds`.
So if $\Theta$ becomes more refined, then their software `SofaBounds` is guaranteed to produce an upper bound of $A_0$ that converges to the maximum value of $A_0$.

We improve upon their `SofaBounds` by computing $A_\Theta$ exactly. Observe that $A_\Theta$ is a piecewisely quadratic function.

In [[15. Cap contains niche]], we substituted the area of sofa with the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A} : \mathcal{K}_\omega \to \mathbb{R}$. 

> __Definition [restriction].__ Let $\Theta, \Theta'$ be angle sets with rotation angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$ such that $\Theta \subseteq \Theta'$. Let $K'$ be any angle set with rotation angle $\Theta'$. Define the _restriction_ $K'|_{\Theta}$ of $K'$ to the angle set $\Theta$ as the intersection ^def-restriction
$$
K'|_{\Theta} = P_\omega \cap \bigcap_{t \in \Theta} Q^+_{K'}(t).
$$
> Accordingly, define $\mathcal{N}_\Theta(K') = \mathcal{N}(K'|_\Theta)$ and $\mathcal{A}_\Theta(K') = \mathcal{A}(K'|_\Theta)$.

> __Corollary [upper-bound-restriction].__  ^cor-upper-bound-restriction