Assuming the injectivity hypothesis, we now prove Gerver's conjecture. By utilizing the first upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1$, we first show that any cap $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ that maximizes the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$ should satisfy certain properties. Then, we use those properties to construct a much refined second upper bound $\mathcal{A}_2$. By maximizing $\mathcal{A}_2$, we will see that the maximizer of $\mathcal{A}_2$ is the Gerver's sofa $S_G$, and that the value of $\mathcal{A}_2$ at $S_G$ matches with the actual area $|S_G|$, completing the proof of Gerver's conjecture.

# Properties of maximizer $K$ of $\mathcal{A}(K)$

Let $K \in \mathcal{K}_{\pi/2}$ be any well-behaved cap that is the maximizer of the sofa area functional $\mathcal{A}(K)$. Then in particular, the upper bound $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ of $\mathcal{A}(K)$ should be at least the area $\mu_G = 2.2195\dots$ of Gerver's sofa. From $\mathcal{A}_1(K) \geq \mu_G$, we will show the following.

> __Theorem [left-right].__ For any $t < \pi / 4$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is always strictly on the right side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. ^thm-left-right

Assume the contrary, then it should be that $f(K) = \left( \mathbf{x}_K(t) -\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4) \right) \cdot u_0 \leq 0$ for some $t < \pi/4$ where $f$ is a linear functional on $K$. We maximize $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ on the convex subspace $f(K) \leq 0$, and show that the maximum is strictly less than $\mu_G$, showing that it is impossible for $K$ to maximize $\mathcal{A}(K)$.

(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: The complete proof for the optimization problem described above is not done. But a numerical approximation of the problem has been computed in Mathematica, and it strongly suggests a 'pre-sofa' solution consisting of two stages of movement (as Gerver's sofa has five stages of _contact points_ described by Romik). Explicitly writing down the constants and working out complicated symbols is the part that will take the most time, but once that is done, the theoretical proof more or less follows the tools and derivation we did for maximizing of $\mathcal{A}_1$.)

By using $\mathcal{A}_1$ similarly, we also show the following.

> __Theorem [left-right-right].__ For any $t > \pi / 4$, the point $\mathbf{x}_K(t)$ is always strictly on the left side of $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. ^thm-left-right-right

(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: The proof is not done here similarly. We do have a numerical approximation solution done in Mathematica suggesting the two stages of contact points)

With [[e. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-left-right]], we can now define the convex curve $\mathbf{b}_K$ which is the envelope of the lines $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\pi/2, \pi/4]$. Define $\mathbf{b}_K$ as the curve that starts with $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$ and ends with the point $A^-_K(0)$, with tangent lines $b_K(t)$ for $t \in [\pi/2, \pi/4]$. The curve $\mathbf{d}_K$ is the curve that starts with the point $C^+_K(\pi/2)$ and ends with the point $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/4)$. [[e. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-left-right]] ensures that the region under both $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{d}_K$ are subsets of the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$. That is, $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{d}_K$ corresponds to the extensions of the tails of the Gerver's sofa.

Next, we show the following, again by showing that for any possible counterexample $K$ we have the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ strictly less than $\mu_G$ by solving the convex optimization problem on $\mathcal{A}_1$.

> __Theorem [corner-above-tail].__ For any $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_m)$ always strictly above the line $b_K(t)$ for $\psi_m = \pi/6$. By symmetry, for any $t \in [0, \pi/4]$, we have $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_m)$ strictly above the line $d_K(t)$. ^thm-corner-above-tail

(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: The proof is not done here similarly.)

# Construction of $\mathcal{A}_2$

With [[e. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-corner-above-tail]], observe that $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_m)$ is strictly above the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$ and $\mathbf{x}_K(0)$ is on the $x$-axis. So by intermediate value theorem, there is a value $\psi_R$ of $t \in [0, \psi_M]$ such that $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ is exactly on the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$. Take the convex curve segment $\mathbf{r}$ of $\mathbf{b}_K$ that connects $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ and $A^-_K(0)$. Because $\mathbf{r}$ is a part of the curve $\mathbf{b}_K$, we should have $p_K(t) - p_\mathbf{r}(t) \leq 1$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/4]$. Likewise, there is a maximum value $\psi_L \in [0, \psi_M]$ such that $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_L)$ is exactly on the curve $\mathbf{d}_K$. Take the convex curve segment $\mathbf{l}$ of $\mathbf{d}_K$ that connects $C_K^+(\pi/2)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_L)$. Because $\mathbf{l}$ is a part of the curve $\mathbf{d}_K$, we should have $p_K(t + \pi/2) - p_\mathbf{l}(t) \leq 1$ for every $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$.

Now the tuple $(K, \mathbf{l}, \mathbf{r})$ is a member of the following space of caps and tails.

> __Definition [cap-tail-space].__ Let $\psi_R, \psi_L \in [0, \psi_{\text{max}}]$ be arbitrary fixed constants. Define the space $\mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L}$ as the tuple $(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l})$ of a cap $K$ with angle set $[0, \pi/2]$, convex curve $\mathbf{r}$ with normal angle $[-3\pi/2, -\pi/2]$ from $\mathbf{x}_K(\psi_R)$ to $A^-_K(0)$, and convex curve $\mathbf{l}$ with normal angle $[-\pi/2, -\pi/4]$ from $C_K^+(\pi/2)$ to $\mathbf{x}_K(\pi/2 - \psi_L)$, such that they satisfy the following constraints. ^def-cap-tail-space
> 
> - $p_K(t) - p_\mathbf{r}(t) \leq 1$ for every $t \in [0, \pi/4]$.
> - $p_K(t + \pi/2) - p_\mathbf{l}(t) \leq 1$ for every $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$.

One key observation is that, once we fix the constants $\psi_R$ and $\psi_L$, the space $\mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L}$ becomes a convex space. Moreover, the area of the region bounded by $\mathbf{r}$, $\mathbf{x}_K|_{[\psi_R, \pi/2-\psi_L]}$ and $\mathbf{l}$ consecutively is a quadratic functional on the space $\mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L}$. So we use this to define the quadratic upper bound $\mathcal{A}_2$.

> __Definition [cap-tail-functional].__ Define $\mathcal{A}_2 : \mathcal{K}_{\psi_R, \psi_L} \to \mathbb{R}$ as the functional ^def-cap-tail-functional
$$
\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l}) = |K| - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{l}) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_K) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{r})
$$

> __Theorem [cap-tail-functional-convex].__ $\mathcal{A}_2$ is concave. ^thm-cap-tail-functional-convex

(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: I can do this by using Mamikon's theorem, and can write it in at most a week including the preparations required)

# Maximization of $\mathcal{A}_2$

Observe that the area under the concatenation of curves $\mathbf{l}$, $\mathbf{x}_K$ and $\mathbf{r}$ is always a subset of $\mathcal{N}(K)$. So for our $K$, we have $\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l}) \geq \mathcal{A}(K)$ by [[05. Definition#^lem-curve-area-functional-lower-bound]]. So $\mathcal{A}_2$ is an upper bound of our area functional $\mathcal{A}$. Also note that for the cap $K_G$ of Gerver's sofa and its tails $\mathbf{r}_G$ and $\mathbf{l}_G$, we have $\mathcal{A}_2(K, \mathbf{r}_G, \mathbf{l}_G) = \mathcal{A}(K)$. This combined with the following theorem proves Gerver's conjecture.

> __Theorem [main-calculation].__ For any $0 \leq \psi_R, \psi_L \leq \psi_{\max}$, the maximum value of $\mathcal{A}_{2}^{\psi_R, \psi_L}\left( K, \mathbf{r}, \mathbf{l} \right)$ is at most the area $\mu_G$ of Gerver's sofa. ^thm-main-calculation

The maximization of $\mathcal{A}_2$ in [[e. Gerver's Conjecture/01. Overview (WIP)#^thm-main-calculation]] is where the difficulty of the moving sofa problem is most concentrated as optimization problem.

(Note as of Nov. 4 2023: Of course the proof is not done. The maximization of $\mathcal{A}_2$ is where the difficulty of the moving sofa problem is most concentrated as optimization problem, while the main theme of all previous parts are all about 'looking at the problem in the right way'. 

Numerical calculation suggests me a maximizer consisting of 9 different stages of movement with different set of contact points. If we work the nine different ODEs out similarly as Romik did in his derivation of Gerver's sofa, then the rest of the argument more or less can be done using same methods for maximizing $\mathcal{A}_1$.

The real time-consuming difficulty is actually formulating and solving the nine different stages analytically. We will have something like 10 different real variables including $\psi_L$ and $\psi_R$, and 8 different equations involving those variables. Note also that we can't also exploit symmetry like Gerver or Romik in their derivation of $S_G$. Numerical calculation suggests that the other 8 variables are functions with respect to $\psi_L$ and $\psi_R$, but actually showing that it's true is a different problem. The equations and value of $\mathcal{A}_2$ is a extremely complicated analytic expression of the area involving the 10 variables, which I think will definitely have to rely on CAS like Mathematica to work out. Then we also have to show that $\mathcal{A}_2$ maximizes exactly when $\psi_L$ and $\psi_R$ match the value of $\psi$ of Gerver's sofa, which seems to be true numerically.

So, after a couple months of work, I expect we will be able to say the following at least:

"Assuming the injectivity hypothesis, we reduce the moving sofa problem to a set of decision/optimization problems involving a finite number of real variables and equations. The equations used in the decision problem is extremely complicated, but here are numerical evidences of why those problems should be true")