# A2 computation

## Parameters

Define $\mathcal{K}^{\phi_1, \phi_2}$ as the datum of
- a cap $K$ of rotation angle $\pi/2$
- a convex curve $\mathbf{b}$ with normal vectors $u_t$ for $t \in [0, \pi/4]$
- a convex curve $\mathbf{d}$ with normal vectors $v_t$ for $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$

Each element of $\mathcal{K}^{\phi_1, \phi_2}$ can be expressed in two ways.
One is support functions $(p_K, p_\mathbf{b}, p_\mathbf{d})$.
Another is boundary measure $(\beta_K, \beta_{\mathbf{b}}, \beta_{\mathbf{d}})$.

## Constraints


- such that $p_K(t) - p_{\mathbf{b}}(t) \leq 1$ for all $t \in [0, \pi/2]$
- and $\mathbf{b}(0)$ is on the $x$-axis
- and $\mathbf{b}(\pi/4) = \mathbf{x}_{K}(\phi_1)$
- such that $p_K(t) - p_{\mathbf{d}}(t) \leq 1$ for all $t \in [\pi/4, \pi/2]$ 
- and $\mathbf{d}(\pi/2)$ is on the $x$-axis
- and $\mathbf{d}(\pi/4) = \mathbf{x}_K(\phi_2)$

## Gradient

$$
\int \Delta p_K(t) \,\beta_K (dt) - 
\int \Delta p_\mathbf{b}(t) \,\beta_\mathbf{b} (dt) - 
\int \Delta p_\mathbf{d}(t) \,\beta_\mathbf{d} (dt)
$$

Compute the radius measure, basically.

# Case 1

- $\mathbf{x}$ starts its movement at $\psi_R$ and ends its movement at $\psi_L$.
- $C$ is the union of $D$ and $\mathbf{x}$
- $A$ is the union of $B$ and $\mathbf{x}$
- $B$ is active if and only if $p_A$ and $p_B$ have difference exactly one.
- $D$ is active if and only if $p_C$ and $p_D$ have difference exactly one.

The maximizer consists of nine different stages.

$0 = t_0 < t_1 < \dots < t_9 = \pi/2$

$t_2 = \psi_R$ and $t_7 = \psi_L$



| -   |                          | I   | II  | III | IV  | V   | VI  | VII | XII | XI  |
| --- | ------------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A  | $\beta_K(dt)$            |     |     | x   | x   | x   | x   | x   |     | x   |
| B   | $\beta_{\mathbf{r}}(dt)$ |     |     |     |     |     | x   |     |     | x   |
| C   | $\beta_K(dt + \pi/2)$    | x   |     | x   | x   | x   | x   | x   |     |     |
| D   | $\beta_{\mathbf{l}}(dt)$ | x   |     |     | x   |     |     |     |     |     |
| x   |                          |     |     | x   | x   | x   | x   | x   |     |     |

1. half-half split between $C_K$ and $\mathbf{d}$. $A_K$ is stationary.
2. All angles and curves stops. Radius measure dies out completely.
3. $A_K$ and $\mathbf{x}$ starts its movement. $C_K$ resumes its movement.
4. $\mathbf{d}$ resumes its movement. At the end of $\mathbf{d}$ it completely stops.
5. Hits $\pi/2$ in the middle
6. 

$\beta_K(dt + \pi/2) = dt/2$ and $\beta_{\mathbf{l}} ($ $t \in (t_0, t_1)$

Some systematic way to tabulate and keep track of 

Case where both $\mathbf{r}$ and $\mathbf{l}$ are strictly $45^\circ$ diagonal, then followed by some convex curve.
$\mathbf{r}$ diagonal length $\gamma_R$

I: 1/2, 1/2 split between $C_K$ and $\mathbf{l}$ initially
II: $\mathbf{l}$ dies out at some point. One can also seem to be able to wiggle around the sofa quite freely??
II & III: $t = \psi_R$ -> $\gamma_R$ affects two sides 
III: $t \in (\psi_R, \psi_L)$ -> $\mathbf{x}_K$ in effect, tails stop working
IV: tail starts kicking in
IV -> V: tail reaches 45 degree





