# On Continuously Differentiable Curves

Here, we define the _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ that maps any parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of a curve $\Gamma$ to a real value, so that if $\mathbf{x}$ makes a closed loop then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by the curve $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [piecewise-continuously-differentiable].__ A function $f : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ is _piecewisely continuously differentiable_ if there is a partition $a = t_0 < t_1 < \cdots < t_n = b$ such that at each interval $I_i = [t_{i-1}, t_i]$, the function $f$ is continuous on $I_i$ and differentiable on $I_i$ including its endpoints. ^def-piecewise-continuously-differentiable

> __Definition [curve-area-differentiable].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any oriented curve with a piecewise continuously differentiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ and its coordinates $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t))$. Define its _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ as ^def-curve-area-differentiable
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t) dy(t) - y(t) dx(t).
$$

> __Definition [plane-cross-product].__ For two vectors $p = (a, b)$ and $q = (c, d)$ in $\mathbb{R}^2$, define their cross product $p \times q = ad - b c \in \mathbb{R}$. ^def-plane-cross-product

Interpreting the differential $d \mathbf{x}(t)$ as the pair $(d x(t), dy(t))$ of differentials of $x(t)$ and $y(t)$, one may write $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ as
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) =  \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b R_{\pi/2}(\mathbf{x}(t)) \cdot d\mathbf{x}(t)
$$
instead, where $R_{\pi/2}(x, y) = (-y, x)$ is the rotation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ along the origin by a counterclockwise angle of $\pi/2$. As this integral is a line integral on $\Gamma$, the value $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is determined by $\Gamma$ and is fixed for any parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of $\Gamma$ that preserves the orientation.

> __Definition [curve-area-line-segment].__ For any two points $p, q \in \mathbb{R}^2$, the curve area functional of the oriented line segment from $p$ to $q$ is simply $(p \times q) / 2$. Denote this value as $\mathcal{I}(p, q) := (p \times q) / 2$. ^def-curve-area-line-segment

We have the following additivity of $\mathcal{I}$.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-additive].__ Let $\gamma$ be the concatenation of two curves $\alpha$ and $\beta$. That is, the ending point of $\alpha$ matches with the starting point of $\beta$, and $\gamma$ is obtained by following $\alpha$ first then $\beta$ next. Then $\mathcal{I}(\gamma) = \mathcal{I}(\alpha) + \mathcal{I}(\beta)$. ^pro-curve-area-functional-additive

If $\mathbf{x}$ is a closed loop, then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the area of the region enclosed by the curve $\mathbf{x}$. See p170 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern] for the notion of the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Proposition [curve-area-functional-area].__ If $\mathbf{x}$ is a Jordan curve oriented counterclockwise (resp. clockwise), then $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is the exact area of the region enclosed by $\mathbf{x}$ (resp. the area with a negative sign). ^pro-curve-area-functional-area

_Proof._ Apply Green's theorem (Theorem 10.43, p289 of [@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]) on the curve $\mathbf{x}$ and vector field $(P, Q) = (-y, x)$. □

If $\mathbf{x}$ is not closed (that is, $\mathbf{x}(a) \neq \mathbf{x}(b)$), the sofa area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ measures the signed area of the region bounded by the curve $\mathbf{x}$, and two line segments connecting the origin to $\mathbf{x}(a)$ and $\mathbf{x}(b)$ respectively.

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x}^* : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ be two continuously differentiable curves. Then the following holds. ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\mathcal{D} \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x} ; \mathbf{x}^*) = \left[ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))  \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t) \right] +  \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a), \mathbf{x}_1(a))
$$

_Proof._ Consider the bilinear form $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = \int_a ^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t)$ on rectifiable $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. Apply [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/02. Calculus of variation#^lem-derivative-calculation]] to $2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{x})$ to get ^eqn-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} 2\mathcal{I}((1 - \lambda)\mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2) = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1) - 2 \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_1).
$$
Using the integration by parts ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]), we have
$$
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1(t) \times d \mathbf{x}_2(t) = \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a) + \int_a^b \mathbf{x}_2(t) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)
$$
or
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2) = 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - 2\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}_1(a) - \mathbf{x}_2(a)) + \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{x}_2, \mathbf{x}_1).
$$
Plug this back in [[#^eqn-variation-curve]] and rearrange to get the claimed equality in [[#^thm-variation-curve]]. □

# On Convex Curves

Now we define an analogous curve area functional $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u})$ for a convex curve $\mathbf{u}$.

> __Definition [curve-area-convex].__ Let $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}_{a, b}$ be any convex curve with normal angles in $(a, b)$. Define its _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u})$ of $\mathbf{u}$ as ^def-curve-area-convex
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_\mathbf{u}(t) \,\sigma_{\mathbf{u}}(dt).
$$

[[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Convex Curves/20. Curve Area Functional#^def-curve-area-convex]] above is motivated by the following theorem.

> __Theorem [convex-body-area].__ (Equation 5.19 of [[@schneider_2013]]) For any planar convex body $K$, we have ^thm-convex-body-area
$$
|K| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in S^1} h_K(t)\, \sigma_K(dt).
$$

We have an alternate representation of [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Convex Curves/20. Curve Area Functional#^def-curve-area-convex]]. Recall that $v_K^+$ is right-continuous and of bounded variation, so the Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d v_K^+$ is well-defined on the interval $[a, b)$. 

> __Theorem [curve-area-convex-formula].__ ^thm-curve-area-convex-formula
$$
\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(t) \times d v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(t)
$$

_Proof._ To show the second stated equality, check $v_K(t) \times dv_K^+(t) = v_K^+(t) \times v_{t} \sigma_K(dt) = p_K(t) \sigma(dt)$ by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]]. □

> __Remark [curve-area].__ [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Convex Curves/20. Curve Area Functional#^def-curve-area-differentiable]] and [[c. Optimality of Gerver's Sofa/07. Convex Curves/20. Curve Area Functional#^def-curve-area-convex]] essentially defines the same thing. In fact, for any rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of a convex curve $\mathbf{u}$, we have $\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}) = \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$. However, we do not establish this here, as doing so requires an explicit parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of $\mathbf{u}$ which is rudimentary yet takes a lot of space to construct. ^rem-curve-area

> __Theorem [curve-area-convex-variation].__ For any $\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{u}^* \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$, the directional derivative of the curve area functional $\mathcal{J}$ on $\mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ at $\mathbf{u}$ towards $\mathbf{u}^*$ evaluates to ^thm-curve-area-convex-variation
$$
D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}; \mathbf{u}^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{\mathbf{u}^*}(t) - h_\mathbf{u}(t) \right) \, \sigma_{\mathbf{u}}(dt) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(b), v_{\mathbf{u}} (b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(a), v_{\mathbf{u}} (a) \right).
$$

_Proof._ Define the bilinear functional
$$
\mathcal{B}(\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{u}^*) := \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} h_\mathbf{u}(t) \,\sigma_{\mathbf{u}^*}(dt)
$$
on $\mathcal{U}$. We first show the equality
$$
\mathcal{B}(\mathbf{u}, \mathbf{u}^*) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{t \in (a, b)} v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(t) \times d v_{\mathbf{u}^*}^+(t).
$$
To do so, check $v_K^+ \times \delta v_K^+ = v_K^+ \times v_{t} \sigma_K = h_K \sigma$ by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]].

and get
$$
D \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}; \mathbf{u}^*) = \int_{t \in (a, b)} \left( h_{\mathbf{u}^*}(t) - h_\mathbf{u}(t) \right) \, \sigma_{\mathbf{u}}(dt) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(b), v_{\mathbf{u}} (b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( v_{\mathbf{u}^*}(a), v_{\mathbf{u}} (a) \right).
$$
□

$\delta f (dt) = d f(t)$

$\delta(t^2) = 2 t \; \delta t$
