We prove a generalized version of Mamikon's theorem [@mnatsakanianAnnularRingsEqual1997] that works for the boundary segment $\mathbf{u}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary]]) of any convex body $K$ with a potentially non-differentiable boundary.

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ Let $\mathbf{u} := \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ be the convex curve with normal angles in open interval $(a, b)$ of $S^1$ from a convex body $K$. Let $\mathbf{y} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be any piecewise continuously differentiable function, such that for all $t \in [a, b]$ the point $\mathbf{y}(t)$ is always on the tangent line $l_K(t)$. Consequently, there is a measurable function $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + \alpha(t)\nu_t$ for all $t \in [a, b]$. We have the equality ^thm-mamikon
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) + \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{y}(b), v_\mathbf{u}^-(b) \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{u} \right)  - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(a) \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{a}^{b} \alpha(t) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ Write $\mathbf{v}(t) := v_\mathbf{u}^+(t)$ for $t \in [a, b)$. Note that both $\mathbf{v}$ and $\mathbf{y}$ are right-continuous by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-limits-converging-to-vertex]], so that $f$ and $\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x}$ are also right-continuous on $(t_0, t_1]$. So the differential $d(\mathbf{y} \times \mathbf{x})$ makes sense as a Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure on $(t_0, t_1]$ ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure]]). We have the chain of equalities

$$
\begin{align*}
& \phantom{{} = .} \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{v}(t) \times d \mathbf{v}(t) + d \left( \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{v}(t) \right)  \\
& = \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{v}(t) \times d \mathbf{v}(t) + \left( d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) + \mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{x} (t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) + \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = \left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right) \times d\left( \mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) \right)  \\
& = f(t) \mu_t \times d\left( f(t) \mu_t \right) = f(t) \mu_t \times ( \mu_t df(t) + f(t) \nu_t dt) = f(t)^2 dt
\end{align*}
$$

of measures on $(t_0, t_1]$. The first equality uses the product rule of differentials ([[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/07. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure#^pro-lebesgue-stieltjes-product]]). The second equality is bilinearity of $\times$ (note that $d \mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t) = - \mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ by antisymmetry of $\times$). As we have $d \mathbf{x}(t) = \sigma(dt)\nu_t$ by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/10. Surface area measure#^thm-boundary-measure-differential]] and $\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t) = f(t)\nu_t$, they are parallel and we get $(\mathbf{y}(t) - \mathbf{x}(t)) \times d \mathbf{x}(t) = 0$ which is used in the third equality. The last chain of equalities are basic calculations.

If we integrate the differential formula above on the whole interval $(t_0, t_1]$, the terms $\mathbf{y}(t) \times d \mathbf{y}(t)$ and $\mathbf{x}(t) \times d \mathbf{x}(t)$ becomes $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y})$ and $2 \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ by [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-curve-area-functional]] and [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/15. Parametrization of boundary#^thm-param-curve-area-functional]] respectively. The Lebesgue-Stieltjes measure $d(\mathbf{y}(t) \times \mathbf{x}(t))$ integrates to the difference $2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), v_K^+(t_1) \right) - 2 \mathcal{I} \left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), v_K^+(t_0) \right)$. So the integral matches twice the left-hand side of the claimed equality in [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]], completing the proof. □

Now we prove a variant of [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]] where the curve $\mathbf{y}(t)$ parametrizes a segment of the tangent line $l_K(t_1)$ of $K$. To do so, we need to prepare some notation.

> __Definition [tangent-leg-length].__ Take arbitrary $a, b \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $a < b < a + \pi$. Define $\alpha_K(a, b)$ as the unique value $\alpha \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $v_K(a, b) = v_K^+(a) + \alpha \nu_t$. ^def-tangent-leg-length

> __Corollary [tangent-line-length-linear].__ Let $t, t' \in S^1$ be arbitrary such that $t' \neq t, t + \pi$. Then $\tau_K(t, t')$ is linear with respect to $K$. ^cor-tangent-line-length-linear

> __Proposition [tangent-line-parametrization].__ 
> ^pro-tangent-line-parametrization

Now this variant of Mamikon's theorem measures the area between a segment $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ of $\partial K$ and the tangent line $l_K(t_1)$.

> __Theorem [mamikon-tangent-line].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be the angles such that $t_0 < t_1 < t_0 + \pi$. Note that $\mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1}$ is the counterclockwise curve along $\partial K$ from $p := v_K^+(t_0)$ to $q := v_K^+(t_1)$. Let $r = l_K(t_0) \cap l_K(t_1)$. Then we have ^thm-mamikon-tangent-line
$$
\mathcal{I}(r, q) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1} \right) - \mathcal{I}\left(r, p \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} \tau_{K}(t, t_1) ^2 \, dt.
$$

_Proof._ Define $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K(t, t_1)$ for every $t < t_1$ and $\mathbf{y}(t_1) = v_K^-(t_1)$. Then $\mathbf{y}$ is absolutely continuous by [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/05. Vertex and support function#^thm-tangent-line-parametrization]] and parametrizes the line segment from $r$ to $v_K^-(t_1)$. By [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^def-tangent-leg-length]], the function $f(t) = \tau_K(t, t_1)$ satisfies $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t) \nu_t$. Now apply [[xx. Mamikon's Theorem/24. Mamikon's theorem#^thm-mamikon]] to the curves $\mathbf{b}_{K}^{t_0, t_1}$, $\mathbf{y}$ and function $f$ to get
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) + \mathcal{I}\left( v_K^-(t_1), q \right) - \mathcal{I}\left( \mathbf{b}_K^{t_0, t_1} \right)  - \mathcal{I}\left( r, p \right) = \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} \tau_{K}(t, t_1) ^2 \, dt.
$$
Now use $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{y}) = \mathcal{I}(r, v_K^-(t_1))$ (see the remark before [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/04. Area functionals#^def-curve-area-functional-segment]]) to conclude the proof. □


$\mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u})$ is closely related to the area of the following region $\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}$.

> __Definition [convex-curve-mamikon-region].__ For any $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$, define its _Mamikon region_ ^def-convex-curve-mamikon-region
$$
\mathcal{M}_{\mathbf{u}} := \left( H_{\mathbf{u}}(a) \cap H_{\mathbf{u}}(b) \right)  \setminus \bigcap_{t \in [a, b]} H_{\mathbf{u}}(t).
$$

> __Proposition [convex-curve-mamikon-region].__ Let $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$ be arbitary. For any convex body $K$ such that $\mathbf{u} = \mathbf{u}_K^{a, b}$, the set $\bigcap_{t \in S^1 \setminus (a, b)} H_K(t)$ is a disjoint union of $K$ and $\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}$. ^pro-convex-curve-mamikon-region

_Proof._ For any $t \in (a, b)$, we have 
$$(H_{\mathbf{u}}(a) \cap H_{\mathbf{u}}(b)) \setminus H_{\mathbf{u}}(t)$$
by xx. Moreover, for any $t \in S^1 \setminus (a, b)$, the set is contained in  □

> __Theorem [convex-curve-area].__ For any convex curve $\mathbf{u} \in \mathcal{U}^{a, b}$, we have ^thm-convex-curve-area
$$
|\mathcal{M}_\mathbf{u}| = \mathcal{J}(\mathbf{u}) + \mathcal{I}(v_{\mathbf{u}}^+(b), v_{\mathbf{u}}(a, b)) + \mathcal{I}(v_{\mathbf{u}}(a, b), v_\mathbf{u}^+(a)).
$$