We define basic geometric notions that will be throughly used in the rest of the document.

> __Definition [strip].__ Let $H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]$ and $V = [0, 1] \times \mathbb{R}$ be the horizontal and vertical strips respectively. ^def-strip

> __Definition [frame].__ For any angle $t$ in $S^1 \simeq \mathbb{R}^2/2\pi\mathbb{Z}$ or $\mathbb{R}$, define the unit vectors $u_t = \left( \cos t, \sin t \right)$ and $v_t = \left( -\sin t,\cos t \right)$. Note that the unit vectors $u_t$ and $v_t$ form a frame with orthonormal basis of $\mathbb{R}^2$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$. ^def-frame

> __Definition [support-function].__ For any shape $S$, define its _support function_ $p_S : S^1 \to \mathbb{R}$ as the value $p_S(t) = \sup \left\{ p \cdot u_t : p \in S \right\}$. ^def-support-function

> __Definition [line].__ For any angle $t$ in $S^1 \simeq \mathbb{R}^2/2\pi\mathbb{Z}$ or $\mathbb{R}$, and a value $h \in \mathbb{R}$, define the line $l(t, h)$ rotated by an angle of $t$ with the distance $h$ from the origin as the following. We say that the line $l(t, h)$ has the _normal angle_ $t$. ^def-line
$$
l(t, h) = \left\{ p \in \mathbb{R}^2 : p \cdot u_t = h \right\}
$$

> __Definition [tangent-line].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, define the _tangent line_ $l_S(t)$ of $S$ with _normal angle_ $t$ as the line $l_S(t) = l(t, p_S(t))$. ^def-tangent-line

> __Definition [half-plane].__ For any angle $t$ in $S^1 \simeq \mathbb{R}^2/2\pi\mathbb{Z}$ or $\mathbb{R}$, and a value $h \in \mathbb{R}$, define the half-plane $H(t, h)$ with the boundary $l(t, h)$ as the following. We say that the half-plane $H(t, h)$ has the _normal angle_ $t$. ^def-half-plane
$$
H(t, h) = \left\{ p \in \mathbb{R}^2 : p \cdot u_t \leq h \right\}
$$
> Also, define its interior counterpart as the following.
$$
H^\circ(t, h) = \left\{ p \in \mathbb{R}^2 : p \cdot u_t < h \right\}
$$

> __Definition [tangent-half-plane].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, define the _tangent half-plane_ $H_S(t)$ of $S$ with _normal angle_ $t$ as the line $H_S(t) = H(t, p_S(t))$. ^def-tangent-line

> __Definition [parallelogram].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _parallelogram_ $P_\omega = H \cap R_\omega(V)$ as the intersection of the horizontal strip $H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]$, and the vertical strip $V = [0, 1] \times \mathbb{R}$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\omega$. Also, for any $\omega \in [0, \pi/2)$ let $p_{\omega} = l(\omega, 1) \cap l(\pi/2, 1)$ be the upper-right corner of the parallelogram. ^def-parallelogram

> __Definition [fan].__ For any angle $\omega \in [0, \pi/2]$, define the _fan_ $F_\omega$ as the intersection $H(3\pi/2, 0) \cap H(\omega + \pi, 0)$ of half-planes. It's the fan spanned by the ray of positive $x$-axis rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $\omega + \pi/2$. Denote its interior as $F_\omega^\circ$. ^def-fan

> __Definition [convex-body].__ A _convex body_ $K$ is a nonempty compact subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$ which is an intersection of [[02. Geometry#^def-half-plane|half-planes]]. ^def-convex-body

> __Definition [convex-body-supported].__ A convex body $K$ is _supported by_ a closed set $\Theta \subseteq S^1$ if $K$ is an intersection of half-planes with normal angles in $\Theta$. ^def-convex-body-supported

> __Definition [curve].__ Let $\alpha : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be a continuous function with $a < b$. A _curve_ $\Gamma$ _parametrized by_ $\alpha$ is the image $\Gamma$ of $\alpha$ equipped with the particular _parametrization_ $\alpha$, and we say that the curve $\Gamma$ _joins_ the points $\alpha(a)$ and $\alpha(b)$.
> 
> If $\alpha(a)=\alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _closed curve_. If $\alpha(a) \neq \alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is an _arc_. If $\alpha$ is one-to-one then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _Jordan arc_. If $\alpha$ is one-to-one on $[a, b)$ and $\alpha(a) = \alpha(b)$ then the curve $\Gamma$ is a _Jordan curve_. ^def-curve

> __Definition [convex-body-edge].__ For any convex body $K$ and $t \in S^1$, let the _edge_ $e_K(t)$ be the line segment defined as the intersection of $K$ with the tangent line $l_K(t)$. Let $v_K^+(t)$ and $v_K^-(t)$ be the endpoints of the line segment $e_K(t)$, such that $v_K^+(t)$ is positioned farthest in the direction of $v_t$ and $v_K^-(t)$ is positioned farthest in the opposite direction of $v_t$. ^def-convex-body-edge

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ For any rectifiable curve $\Gamma$ equipped with a parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, define the _area functional_ $I(\mathbf{x})$ on $\Gamma[\mathbf{x}]$ as the following. ^def-curve-area-functional
$$
I(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t)
$$
> Note that $\mathbf{x}(t)$ is [[#^thm-rectifiable-iff-bounded-variation|of bounded variation]] and also continuous, so the integral is well-defined.