We will use the following results for the sofa problem. The proof of these results are irrelevant to the main discussion on sofas, so we delegate most of their proofs in an appendix.

# Convex Bodies

The following is called the _surface area measure_ $\beta_K$ of a convex body $K$ in the general case when $K$ is $n$-dimensional [[@busemann1958convex]] [[@schneiderConvexSurfacesCurvature1993]]. Because we only work with two-dimensional convex bodies, we call such measure the _boundary measure_ of $K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure].__ For any convex body $K$, there is a uniquely associated _boundary measure_ $\beta_K$ on $S^1$ such that it satisfies the _vertex formulas_: For any $a < b$, ^thm-boundary-measure
$$
\int_{(a, b]} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^+(a) 
$$
$$
\int_{[a, b]} v_t \, \beta(dt) = v_K^+(b) - v_K^-(a) 
$$
> In short, $dv_K^+(t) = v_t \beta_K(dt)$.

If $K$ has a smooth boundary, then the vertex $v_K(t) = v_K^{\pm}(t)$ is a smooth function parametrized by $t \in S^1$ and $\beta_K$ is the measure on $S^1$ with distribution function $|| v_K'(t) ||$. So essentially, $\beta_K$ measures the differential side lengths of $K$. $\beta_K$ generalizes naturally to $K$ with non-smooth boundary. For example, if $K$ is a unit square then $\beta_K$ is concentrated on four points $t = 0, \pi/2, \pi, 3\pi/2$ each with a measure 1, measuring exact side lengths making an angle $t$.

We define the parametrization of the boundary of arbitrary convex body $K$ with nonempty interior. For any two points $p, q \in \partial K$ on the boundary, there is a unique segment $\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}$ of the boundary connecting $p$ and $q$ in the counterclockwise direction. Moreover, when $p$ and $q$ are the vertices of $K$ the segment $\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}$ can be expressed as the union of some edges.

> __Theorem [boundary-parametrization].__ For any convex body $K$ with nonempty interior, the topological boundary $\partial K$ is both (i) a Jordan curve and (ii) the union $\cup_{t \in S^1} e_K(t)$ of all the edges of $K$. Write $B_K$ for the length of $\partial K$. For any point $p \in \partial K$ there is a unique positively oriented arc-length parametrization $\mathbf{x}_{K, p} : [0, B_K]$ of $\partial K$ that starts and ends with $p$.

> __Theorem [boundary-parametrization-segment].__ For any $p, q \in \partial K$, let $B_{K, p, q}$ be the length between $p$ and $q$ measured on the curve $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}$ (if $q=p$ then choose $B_{K, p, q} = B_K$). Let $\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}$ be the initial part $\mathbf{x}_{K, p}|_{[0, B_{K, p, q}]}$ that connects $p$ and $q$ counterclockwise in $\partial K$. Then for any $t_1, t_2 \in \mathbb{R}$ with $t_2 \in (t_1, t_1 + 2\pi]$, the function $\mathbf{x}_{K, v^+_K(t_1), v^+_K(t_2)}$ parametrizes the set $\cup_{t \in (t_1, t_2]} e_K(t)$. If $t_2 \in (t_1, t_1 + 2\pi)$, then the function $\mathbf{x}_{K, v^-_K(t_1), v^+_K(t_2)}$ parametrizes the set $\cup_{t \in [t_1, t_2]} e_K(t)$. ^thm-boundary-parametrization. ^thm-boundary-parametrization-segment

This theorem connects the boundary measure of $K$ to the area of $K$.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-area].__ For any convex body $K$, the boundary measure satisfies the _area formula_: ^thm-boundary-measure-area
$$
\left| K \right| = \frac{1}{2} \int_{S^1}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$
> Moreover, we have the following formulas for the area functional on boundary segments.
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, v_K^+(t_0), v_K^+(t_1)} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{(t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$
$$
I\left( \mathbf{x}_{K, v_K^-(t_0), v_K^+(t_1)} \right) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{[t_0, t_1]}p_K(t)\,\beta_K(dt)
$$

> __Definition [convex-body-linear].__ Let $V$ be a vector space and $f$ be a map from the collection of all convex bodies to $V$. If for any convex bodies $K_1, K_2$ and $a, b \geq 0$ we have $f(aK_1+bK_2) = af(K_1) + b f(K_2)$, then say that $f$ is _linear_ on the convex bodies. If $V=\mathbb{R}$ call such $f$ a _linear functional_ on convex bodies. ^def-convex-body-linear

> __Theorem [convex-body-linear].__ Support function $p_K$, boundary measure $\beta_K$, vertices $v_K^+$ and $v_K^-$ are all linear with respect to convex body $K$. Also, for fixed and different $t_1, t_2 \in S^1$, the intersection point $l_K(t_1) \cap l_K(t_2)$ is linear respect to $K$. ^thm-convex-body-linear

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-support].__ If $K$ is supported by some $\Theta \subseteq S^1$, then the support of the measure $\beta_K$ on $S^1$ is also contained in $\Theta$. That is, the measure of $\beta_K$ is zero outside $\Theta$. ^thm-boundary-measure-support

The following theorem is known as the Gauss-Minkowski theorem [[@marckert2014compact]]. It gives a bijection between any convex body $K$ and its boundary measure $\beta_K$.

> __Theorem [gauss-minkowski].__ (Gauss-Minkowski) Let $p_0$ be an arbitrary point on $\mathbb{R}^2$ and $t_0 \in S^1$ be an arbitrary angle. Then any convex body $K$ with the vertex $v_K^+(t_0) = p_0$ corresponds bijectively to an arbitrary measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$ by $\beta = \beta_K$. ^thm-gauss-minkowski

> __Theorem [supported-gauss-measure].__ The correspondence in [[#^thm-gauss-minkowski]] maps the convex bodies $K$ supported by closed $\Theta \subseteq S^1$ bijectively to arbitrary (nonnegative) measure $\beta$ on $S^1$ with support $\Theta$ such that $\int_{S^1} v_t \, \beta (dt) = 0$. ^thm-supported-gauss-measure

# Jordan Curve

Recall the following two standard theorems.

> __Theorem [jordan-curve].__ (Jordan curve theorem. Theorem 8-40 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]]) Any Jordan curve $J$ divides the complement $\mathbb{R}^2 \setminus J$ into two connected components: an unbounded region $\mathcal{U}(J)$, and a bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$. Their boundaries are both $J$. ^thm-jordan-curve

The following theorem is a special case of Green's theorem.

> __Theorem [green].__ (Theorem 10-43 of [[@apostolMathematicalAnalysisModern]] with $P = -y/2$ and $Q=x/2$) If $J$ is a Jordan curve with a positively oriented, rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$, then the area of the bounded region $\mathcal{B}(J)$ can be computed as the following. ^thm-green
$$
\left| \mathcal{B}(J) \right| = I(\mathbf{x})
$$

Any Jordan curve is either positively or negatively oriented. Although we won't provide the precise definition of orientation, we use the following lemma to determine the orientation of a Jordan curve.

> __Lemma [orientation].__ Let $p$ and $q$ be two different points of $\mathbb{R}^2$. Define the closed half-planes $H_0$ and $H_1$ as the half-planes separated by the line $l$ connecting $p$ and $q$, so that for any point $x$ in the interior of $H_0$ (resp. $H_1$) the points $x, p, q$ are in clockwise (resp. counterclockwise) order. If a Jordan curve $J$ consists of the join of two arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$, $\Gamma_0$ from $p$ to $q$ inside $H_0$ and $\Gamma_1$ from $q$ to $p$ inside $H_1$ respectively, then $J$ is positively oriented. ^lem-orientation

_Proof._ (sketch) We first show that it is safe to assume the case where $J$ only intersects $l$ at two points $p$ and $q$. Observe that $H_i$ has a deformation retract to some subset $S_i \subseteq H_i$ with $S_i \cap l = \left\{ p, q \right\}$ (push the segments of $l \setminus \{p, q\}$ towards the interior of $H_i$). Using the retracts, we may continuously deform the arcs $\Gamma_0$ and $\Gamma_1$ inside $S_0$ and $S_1$ respectively without chainging the orientation of $J$. Now take any point $r$ inside the segment connecting $p$ and $q$ and move the point $x$ inside $J$ in the orientation of $J$ starting with $x = p$. As $x$ moves along $\Gamma_0$ from $p$ to $q$ the argument of $x$ with respect to $r$ increases by $\pi$. And as $x$ moves along $\Gamma_1$ the argument again increases by $\pi$. So the total increase in the argument of $x \in J$ is $2\pi$ and $J$ is positively oriented. □

# Mamikon's Theorem

Mamikon devised a way to calculate the area swept by tangent segments of a curve [[@mnatsakanianAnnularRingsEqual1997]]. Here, we introduce a formalization of his theorem that works for arbitrary convex bodies and rectifiable curves.

> __Theorem [mamikon].__ (Mamikon) Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{R}$ be the angles such that $t_0 < t_1 < t_0 + 2 \pi$. Take any $p \in e_K(t_0)$ and $q \in e_K(t_1)$ on the boundary of $K$.  Let $\mathbf{y} : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ be some parametrization of a rectifiable curve with a function $f : [t_0, t_1] \to \mathbb{R}$ such that $\mathbf{y}(t) = v_K^+(t) + f(t)v_t$ for all $t \in [t_0, t_1]$. Then the following holds. ^thm-mamikon
$$
I(\mathbf{y}) + I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_1), q \right) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}) - I\left( \mathbf{y}(t_0), p \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_0}^{t_1} f(t) ^2 \, dt
$$

This is a variant of Mamikon's theorem where $\mathbf{y}(t) = l_K(t) \cap l_K(t_q)$ parametrizes a segment of the tangent line $l_K(t_q)$. It is almost an immediate consequence of [[#^thm-mamikon]] but is slightly different in the details.

> __Theorem [mamikon-tangent-line].__ Let $K$ be an arbitrary convex body. Let $p, q \in \partial K$ be two different points on the boundary of $K$. Let $t_p, t_q \in \mathbb{R}$ be the angles such that $p \in e_K(t_p)$ and $q \in e_K(t_q)$ and $t_p < t_q < t_p + \pi$. For every $t \in [t_p, t_q)$, define $f(t)$ to be the value such that $l_K(t) \cap l_K(t_q) = v_K^+(t) + f(t) v_t$. Let $r = l_K(t_p) \cap l_K(t_q)$. Then $f$ is integrable and the following holds. ^thm-mamikon-tangent-line
$$
I(r, q) - I(\mathbf{x}_{K, p, q}) - I\left(r, p \right) =  \frac{1}{2}\int_{t_p}^{t_q} f(t) ^2 \, dt
$$

# Calculus of Variations

The following calculations are used as subroutines for the calculus of variation on sofas.

> __Theorem [boundary-measure-area-variation].__ For any convex bodies $K_1, K_2$, let $K = (1 - \lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ be the linear interpolation between them. Then we have the following. ^thm-boundary-measure-area-variation
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} |K| = \int_{S^1} (p_{K_2}(t) - p_{K_1}(t)) \, \beta_{K_1}(dt)
$$

_Proof._ Define the following for two convex bodies $K_1$ and $K_2$.
$$
V(K_1, K_2) = \frac{1}{2} \int_{S^1}p_{K_1}(t)\,\beta_{K_2}(dt)
$$
By [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-boundary-measure-area]] we have $V(K, K)$ equal to the area $|K|$ of $K$ for any $K$, and by [[03. Geometric Results#^thm-convex-body-linear]] $V(K_1, K_2)$ is multilinear with respect to each variable. So $V(K_1, K_2)$ is the mixed volume of $K_1$ and $K_2$ (say, because $2V(K_1, K_2) = |K_1 + K_2| - |K_1| - |K_2|$). By multilinearlity and reflexivity of $V$, for $K = (1 - \lambda) K_1 + \lambda K_2$ we have the following.
$$
\begin{align*}
\left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} |K| & = \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} V(K, K) =  \\
& = \left. \frac{d}{d\lambda} \right|_{\lambda=0} (1-\lambda)^2 V(K_1, K_1) + 2 \lambda (1 - \lambda) V(K_1, K_2) + \lambda^2 V(K_2, K_2)  \\
& = - 2 V(K_1, K_1) + 2 V(K_1, K_2)  \\
& = \int_{S^1} (p_{K_2}(t) - p_{K_1}(t)) \, \beta_{K_1}(dt)
\end{align*}
$$
□

> __Theorem [variation-curve].__ Let $\mathbf{x}_1, \mathbf{x}_2 : [a, b]\to\mathbb{R}^2$ be two rectifiable curves. Let $\mathbf{x} = (1 - \lambda) \mathbf{x}_1 + \lambda \mathbf{x}_2$ be the interpolation between $\mathbf{x}_1$ and $\mathbf{x}_2$ where $\lambda \in [0, 1]$. Then the following holds. ^thm-variation-curve
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} I(\mathbf{x}) = I(\mathbf{x}_1(b), \mathbf{x}_2(b)) - I(\mathbf{x}_1(a), \mathbf{x}_1(a))
+ \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t)) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 (t)
$$

_Proof._ Direct calculation gives
$$
\begin{align*}
I(\mathbf{x}) & = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_1(t) + \lambda (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))) \times (d\mathbf{x}_1(t) + \lambda d(\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t))) \\
& = \frac{1}{2} \lambda \left( \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 + \mathbf{x}_1 \times d(\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \right) + \dots
\end{align*}
$$
where only the linear term of $\lambda$ is displayed in the last expression. So in particular we have the following derivative.
$$
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} I(\mathbf{x}) = \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b  (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 + \mathbf{x}_1 \times d(\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1)
$$

Do [[02. Notations and Conventions#^thm-integration-by-parts|integration by parts]] on one integral.
$$
\begin{align*}
\int_a^b \mathbf{x}_1 \times d(\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) & = \left. \mathbf{x}_1 (t) \times (\mathbf{x}_2(t) - \mathbf{x}_1(t)) \right|_{t=a}^{b} 
  + \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1 \\
 & = \mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a) + \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1
\end{align*}
$$
Substituting this back, we get 
$$
\begin{align*}
\left. \frac{d}{d \lambda} \right|_{\lambda = 0} I(\mathbf{x}) & = \frac{\mathbf{x}_1 (b) \times \mathbf{x}_2(b) - \mathbf{x}_1(a) \times \mathbf{x}_2(a)}{2} 
 + \int_a^b (\mathbf{x}_2 - \mathbf{x}_1) \times d\mathbf{x}_1
\end{align*}
$$
that matches the claimed equation. □