> __Definition [hallway].__ The _hallway_ $L = L_H \cup L_V$ is the union of sets $L_H = (-\infty, 1] \times [0, 1]$ and $L_V = [0, 1] \times (-\infty, 1]$, each representing the horizontal and vertical side of $L$ respectively. ^def-hallway

> __Definition [strip].__ Define the unit-width horizontal and vertical strips $H = \mathbb{R} \times [0, 1]$ and $V = [0, 1] \times \mathbb{R}$ respectively. ^def-strip

In the introduction, we gave a definition of a moving sofa $S$ as a subset of $L_H$. However, the condition that $S$ should be confined in $L_H$ is a bit restrictive for our future use. So we will also call any translation of such $S \subseteq L_H$ a _moving sofa_ as well without loss of generality.

> __Definition [sofa].__ A _moving sofa_ $S$ is a connected, nonempty and compact subset of $\mathbb{R}^2$, such that a translation of $S$ is a subset of $L_H$ that admits a continuous rigid motion inside $L$ from $L_H$ to $L_V$. ^def-sofa

It is safe assume that a moving sofa is always closed, since for any subset of $L$ its closure is also contained in $L$. We also define the rotation angle $\omega$ of a moving sofa $S$.

> __Definition [rotation-angle].__ Say that a moving sofa $S$ have the _rotation angle_ $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ if the continuous rigid motion of a translate of $S$ from $L_H$ to $L_V$ inside $L$ rotates the body clockwise by $\omega$ in its full movement. ^def-rotation-angle

With the result of [@kallusImprovedUpperBounds2018] that $\omega \in [81.203\dots^\circ, 90^\circ]$ for a maximum-area moving sofa, we will always assume that a moving sofa have rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. For each rotation angle $\omega$, we define the following notions for future use.

> __Definition [rotation-map].__ Define $R_\theta : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as the rotation map of $\mathbb{R}^2$ around the origin by a counterclockwise angle of $\theta \in S^1$. ^def-rotation-map

> __Definition [parallelogram].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, define the _parallelogram_ $P_\omega = H \cap R_\omega(V)$ with _rotation angle_ $\omega$.[^parallelogram] ^def-parallelogram

> __Definition [j-cap].__ For any $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$, define the set $J_\omega = [0, \omega] \cup [\pi/2, \omega + \pi/2]$. ^def-j-cap

For reference, the notion of _standard position_ of a moving sofa will be defined in [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-standard-position]]. The _monotonization_ $\mathcal{M}(S)$, _cap_ $\mathcal{C}(S)$, and _niche_ $\mathcal{N}(K)$ of a moving sofa $S$ will be defined in [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotonization]], [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-cap-sofa]], and [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a monotone sofa#^def-niche]] respectively.

[^parallelogram]: If $\omega = \pi/2$, then the set $P_{\pi/2} = H$ is technically not a parallelogram. We will however call it as the parallelogram with rotation angle $\pi/2$.