Refer to [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005] for the standard notion of _Lipschitz_, _bounded variation_ and _absolute continuity_ of a single-variable, real-valued function. Recall that a continuous curve with parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ is _rectifiable_ if and only if its $x$ and $y$ coordinates are both of bounded variation (Theorem 3.1 of [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005]). We now define the _curve area functional_ $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ of $\mathbf{x}$.

> __Definition [planar-cross-product].__ For two points $(a, b), (c, d) \in \mathbb{R}^2$, denote their cross product as $(a, b) \times (c, d) = ad - bc \in \mathbb{R}$. ^def-planar-cross-product

> __Definition [curve-area-functional].__ Let $\Gamma$ be any curve equipped with a rectifiable parametrization $\mathbf{x} : [a, b] \to \mathbb{R}^2$. With $\mathbf{x}(t) = (x(t), y(t))$, define the _curve area functional_ ^def-curve-area-functional
$$
\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b \mathbf{x}(t) \times d\mathbf{x}(t) := \frac{1}{2} \int_a^b x(t) dy(t) - y(t) dx(t)
$$
> of curve $\Gamma$.

The integral in [[xb. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-curve-area-functional]] is the Lebesgue-Stieltjes integral, for which we again refer to [@steinRealAnalysisMeasure2005]. By change of variables (e.g. Equation 2 of [@falknerSubstitutionRuleLebesgue2012]), the value of $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x}) = \mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x} \circ \alpha)$ is the same even if we replace $\mathbf{x}$ with a reparametrization $\mathbf{x} \circ \alpha : [a', b'] \to \mathbb{R}^2$ of curve $\Gamma$, where $\alpha : [a', b'] \to [a, b]$ is any monotonically increasing, continuous, and surjective function. In particular, for any parametrization $\mathbf{x}$ of the line segment from point $p$ to $q$, its curve area functional $\mathcal{I}(\mathbf{x})$ is equal to $1/2 \cdot (p \times q)$.

> __Definition [curve-area-functional-segment].__ Write $\mathcal{I}(p, q)$ for the area functional of the line segment connecting the point $p$ to $q$, so that we have $\mathcal{I}(p, q) = 1/2 \cdot (p \times q)$. ^def-curve-area-functional-segment

For reference, the function $\mathcal{A}(K)$ is the _sofa area functional_ on cap $K$ defined in [[b. Upper Bound A1/20. Sofa area functional A/00. Preface#^def-sofa-area-functional]]. $\mathcal{A}_1(K)$ is a conditional upper bound of $\mathcal{A}(K)$ defined in [[xb. Upper Bound A1/25. Upper Bound A1/01. Definition of A1#^def-a1]].