In this section, we rigorously define what is a _monotone sofa_. [[05. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]] shows that the process named _monotonization_ enlarges any moving sofa $S$ to a larger moving sofa $\mathcal{M}(S)$ as described in [[01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa#^eqn-monotone]] of [[01. Introduction/03. Monotone Sofa]]. A monotone sofa is then simply defined as the monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of some moving sofa $S$ ([[05. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^def-monotone-sofa]]). Proving the connectedness of $\mathcal{M}(S)$ ([[05. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-connected]]) will be the key step in establishing [[05. Monotone sofas/10. Monotonization#^thm-monotonization-is-sofa]].

[[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^thm-monotonization-structure]] shows that any monotone sofa $S$ is equal to $K \setminus \mathcal{N}(K)$, where $K = \mathcal{C}(S)$ is a convex set called the _cap of_ $S$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^thm-cap-hallway-intersection]]), and $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is a subset of $K$ called the _niche_ determined by the cap $K$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone sofas/12. Structure of a Monotone Sofa#^def-niche]]). Then we show that the niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ is always contained in the cap $K$ of sofa $S$ ([[a. Angle Hypothesis/05. Monotone sofas/15. Cap Contains Niche#^thm-niche-in-cap]]). With this, the area $|S| = |K| - |\mathcal{N}(K)|$ of a monotone sofa $S$ can be understood in terms of cap $K$ and niche $\mathcal{N}(K)$ separately.
