# Tangent Hallway

Define the _tangent hallways_ for a shape $S$ (that is, any nonempty compact subset $S$ of $\mathbb{R}^2$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-shape]]).

> __Definition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, define the _tangent hallway_ $L_S(t)$ of $S$ with angle $t$ as ^def-tangent-hallway
$$
L_S(t) = R_t(L) + (p_S(t) - 1)  u_t + (p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t.
$$

Note that $R_t$ is the rotation of $\mathbb{R}^2$ along the origin by a counterclockwise angle of $t$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/02. Moving sofa#^def-rotation-map]]). The equation of $L_S(t)$ in [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway]] is determined by the following defining property of $L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [rigid-transformation].__ Here, a _rigid transformation_ $f : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ on $\mathbb{R}^2$ is the composition $z \mapsto R_t(z) + q$ of translation by a vector $q \in \mathbb{R}^2$ and rotation by an angle $t \in S^1$ along the origin. We also say that a shape $S'$ is a rigid transformation _of_ another shape $S$ if there exists a rigid transformation $f : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ such that $S' = f(S)$. ^def-rigid-transformation

> __Proposition [tangent-hallway].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ is the unique rigid transformation of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$, such that the outer walls of $L_S(t)$ corresponding to the outer walls $a$ and $c$ of $L$ are the tangent lines $l_S(t)$ and $l_S(t + \pi/2)$ of $S$ respectively. ^pro-tangent-hallway

_Proof._ Let $c_1$ and $c_2$ be arbitrary real values. Then $L' = R_t(L) + c_1 u_t + c_2 v_t$ is an arbitrary rigid transformation of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by $t$. The outer walls of $L'$ corresponding to the outer walls $a$ and $c$ of $L$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-hallway-walls]]) are $l(t, c_1 + 1)$ and $l(t + \pi/2, c_2 + 1)$ respectively. They match with the tangent lines $l_S(t) = l(t, p_S(t))$ and $l_S(t + \pi/2) = l(t + \pi/2, p_S(t + \pi/2))$ of $S$ if and only if $c_1 = p_S(t) - 1$ and $c_2 = p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1$. That is, if and only if $L' = L_S(t)$. □

Name the parts of tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ according to the parts of $L$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-hallway-corners]], [[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-hallway-walls]], and [[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-hallway-regions]]) for future use.

> __Definition [tangent-hallway-map].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, define the rigid transformation $f_{S, t} : \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ as ^def-tangent-hallway-map
$$
f_{S, t}(z) = R_t(z) + (p_S(t) - 1)  u_t + (p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t
$$
> so that $f_{S, t}$ maps $L$ to $L_S(t)$.

> __Definition [rotating-hallway-parts].__ For any shape $S$ and angle $t \in S^1$, let $\mathbf{x}_S(t), \mathbf{y}_S(t), a_S(t), b_S(t), c_S(t), d_S(t), Q^+_S(t), Q^-_S(t)$ be the parts of $L_S(t)$ corresponding to the parts $\mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, a, b, c, d, Q^+, Q^-$ of $L$ respectively. That is, for any $? = \mathbf{x}, \mathbf{y}, a, b, c, d, Q^+, Q^-$, let $?_S(t) := f_{S, t}(?)$. ^def-rotating-hallway-parts

> __Proposition [rotating-hallway-parts].__ We have $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ and $Q^+_S(t) = H_S(t) \cap H_S(t + \pi/2)$. Also we have the following representations of the parts purely in terms of the supporting function $p_S$ of $S$. ^pro-rotating-hallway-parts
$$
\begin{gather*}
\mathbf{x}_S(t) = (p_S(t) - 1) u_t + (p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1) v_t \\
\mathbf{y}_S(t) = p_S(t) u_t + p_S(t + \pi/2) v_t \\
a_S(t) = l_S(t) = l(t, p_S(t)) \\
b_S(t) \subseteq l(t, p_S(t) - 1) \\
c_S(t) = l_S(t + \pi/2) = l(t + \pi/2, p_S(t + \pi/2)) \\
d_S(t) \subseteq l(t + \pi/2, p_S(t + \pi/2) - 1) \\
Q_S^+(t) = H(t, p_S(t)) \cap H(t + \pi/2, p_S(t + \pi/2)) \\
Q_S^-(t) = H(t, p_S(t) - 1)^{\circ} \cap H(t + \pi/2, p_S(t + \pi/2))^{\circ}
\end{gather*}
$$

_Proof._ The formulas for $\mathbf{x}_S(t)$ and $\mathbf{y}_S(t)$ are obtained by letting $z$ equal to $\mathbf{x} = (0, 0)$ or $\mathbf{y} = (1, 1)$ in the equation of [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway-map]]. The formulas for $a_S(t), b_S(t), c_S(t)$, and $d_S(t)$ follows from the proof of [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-tangent-hallway]]. The equality $L_S(t) = Q_S^+(t) \setminus Q_S^-(t)$ follows from mapping $L = Q^+ \setminus Q^-$ under the transformation $f_{S, t}$. The equality $Q^+_S(t) = H_S(t) \cap H_S(t + \pi/2)$ follows from that $Q^+_S(t)$ is a cone bounded by tangent lines $a_S(t) = l_S(t)$ and $c_S(t) = l_S(t + \pi/2)$ as in the proof of [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-tangent-hallway]]. The formulas for $Q_S^-(t)$ and $Q_S^+(t)$ in terms of $p_S$ now follow from [[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/03. Convex body#^def-tangent-half-plane]] and that $Q_S^-(t)$ is bounded by $b_S(t)$ and $d_S(t)$. □

Assume that a rigid transformation $L'$ of $L$ rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t \in S^1$ contains a shape $S$. By translating the outer walls of $L'$ towards $S$ until they make contact with $S$, we can see that the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ also contains $S$.

> __Proposition [tangent-hallway-contains].__ Let $S$ be any shape contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$ with angle $t \in S^1$. Then the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ with angle $t$ also contains $S$. ^pro-tangent-hallway-contains

_Proof._ Assume that the translation $L'$ of $R_t(L)$ contains $S$. Then while keeping $S$ inside $L'$, we can push $L'$ towards $S$ in the directions $-u_t$ and $-v_t$ until the outer walls of the final $L' = L_S(t)$ make contact with $S$. The pushed hallway $L_S(t)$ still contains $S$ because the directions $-u_t$ and $-v_t$ of the movement only push the inner walls of $L'$ away from $S$. □

# Moving Hallway Problem

By our [[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-sofa]] of a moving sofa $S$, any translation of $S$ is also a valid moving sofa. Without loss of generality, we will always assume that a moving sofa $S$ is in _standard position_ by translating it.

> __Definition [standard-position].__ A moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is in _standard position_ if $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$.
> ^def-standard-position

> __Proposition [standard-position-shape].__ For any angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ and shape $S$, there is a translation $S'$ of $S$ such that $p_{S'}(\omega) = p_{S'}(\pi/2) = 1$ which is (i) unique if $\omega < \pi/2$, or (ii) unique up to horizontal translations if $\omega = \pi/2$.
> ^pro-standard-position-shape

_Proof._ Since the support function $p_{S'}(t)$ measures the signed distance from origin to tangent line $l_{S'}(t)$ (see the remark above [[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-support-function]]), the translation $S'$ of $S$ satisfies the condition $p_{S'}(\omega) = p_{S'}(\pi/2) = 1$ if and only if the lines $l(\omega, 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ are tangent to $S'$ and $S'$ is below the lines. Translate $S$ below the lines $l(\omega, 1)$ and $l(\pi/2, 1)$ so that it makes contact with the two lines. If $\omega < \pi/2$, then the constraints determine the unique location of $S'$. If $\omega = \pi/2$, then the two lines are equal to the horizontal line $y=1$, and $S'$ can move freely horizontally as long as the line $y=1$ makes contact with $S'$ from above. □

Assume any moving sofa $S$ with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$. By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-standard-position-shape]] any moving sofa can be put in standard position by translating it. Gerver also observed in [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992] that $S$ should be contained in the tangent hallways $L_S(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-tangent-hallway-contains]]). We summarize the full details of Gerver's observation (line 18-22, p269; line 24-31, p270 of [@gerverMovingSofaCorner1992]) in the following theorem.

> __Theorem [moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection].__ Let $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ be an arbitrary angle. For a connected shape $S$, the following conditions are equivalent. ^thm-moving-sofa-iff-hallway-intersection
> 
> 1. $S$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$.
> 2. $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$. Also, for every $t \in [0, \omega]$, $S$ is contained in a translation of $R_t(L)$, the hallway rotated counterclockwise by an angle of $t$.
> 3. Let $S'$ be any translation of $S$ such that $p_{S'}(\omega) = p_{S'}(\pi/2) = 1$. Then (i) $S' \subseteq P_\omega$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/02. Moving sofa#^def-parallelogram]]), (ii) $S' \subseteq L_{S'}(t)$ for all $t \in [0, \omega]$, and (iii) $S'$ is a moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega$ in standard position.

_Proof._ (1 $\Rightarrow$ 2) Consider the movement of $S$ inside the hallway $L$. For any angle $t \in [0, \omega]$, there is a moment where the sofa $S$ is rotated clockwise by an angle of $t$ inside $L$, by the intermediate value theorem on the angle of rotation of $S$ inside $L$. Viewing this from the perspective of the sofa $S$, $S$ is contained in some translation of $L$ rotated _counterclockwise_ by an arbitrary $t \in [0, \omega]$. Likewise, by looking at the initial (resp. final) position of $S$ inside $L_H$ (resp. $L_V$) from the perspective of $S$, the set $S$ should be contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$ respectively.

(2 $\Rightarrow$ 3) Take any $S$ satisfying (2) and its arbitrary translation $S'$ satisfying $p_{S'}(\omega) = p_{S'}(\pi/2) = 1$ which is the premise of (3). Then the translate $S'$ of $S$ also satisfies (2). So without loss of generality, we can simply assume $S' = S$ and show (i), (ii) and (iii). Since $S$ is contained in a translation of $H$ and $R_\omega(V)$, the width of $S$ along the direction of $u_\omega$ and $v_0$ ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/03. Convex body#^def-width]]) are at most 1. So $p_S(\omega) = p_S(\pi/2) = 1$ implies (i) $S \subseteq P_\omega$. [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-tangent-hallway-contains]] implies (ii) $S \subseteq L_S(t)$. It remains to show (iii) that $S$ is a moving sofa.

Because the support function $p_S(t)$ of $S$ is continuous, the tangent hallway $L_S(t)$ moves continuously with respect to $t$ by [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway]]. For every $t \in [0, \omega]$, let $g_t := f_{S, t}^{-1}$ be the unique rigid transformation that maps $L_S(t)$ to $L$. Then the rigid transformation $S_t := g_t(S)$ of $S$ also changes continuously with respect to $t$. Because $L_S(0)$ is a translation of $L$ by letting $t=0$ in [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^def-tangent-hallway]], $g_0$ is a translation and so $S_0$ is a translation of $S$. Mapping $S \subseteq L_S(t)$ under $g_t$ we have $S_t \subseteq L$. So $S_t$ over the angle $t \in [0, \omega]$ as time is a continuous movement of a translation $S_0$ of $S$ inside $L$.

It remains to show that $S_0 \subseteq H$ and $S_\omega \subseteq V$. Because $p_S(\pi/2) = 1$, $L_S(0)$ is a translation of $L$ along the direction $u_0$, and the map $g_0$ is also a translation along the direction $u_0$. Because $S \subseteq H$, we also have $S_0 = g_0(S) \subseteq H$. Likewise, since $p_S(\omega) = 1$ the hallway $L_S(\omega)$ is a translation of $L$ along the direction $v_\omega$. So the map $g_\omega$ is the composition of a translation along the direction $v_\omega$ and $R_{-\omega}$. Because $S \subseteq R_\omega(V)$, we also have $S_\omega = g_\omega(S) \subseteq g_\omega(R_\omega(V)) = V$.

(3 $\Rightarrow$ 1) By [[c. Upper Bound A1/15. Monotone sofas/07. Tangent Hallway#^pro-standard-position-shape]], any connected shape $S$ have a translation $S'$ that satisfies the premise $p_{S'}(\omega) = p_{S'}(\pi/2) = 1$ of (3). So $S'$ is a moving sofa by (3), and its translation $S$ is a moving sofa as well. □

> __Theorem [monotonization-is-sofa].__ Let $S$ be any moving sofa with rotation angle $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ in standard position. The monotonization $\mathcal{M}(S)$ of $S$ is a moving sofa containing $S$ with the same rotation angle $\omega$ in standard position. ^thm-monotonization-is-sofa

> __Definition [cap].__ A _cap_ $K$ with _rotation angle_ $\omega \in (0, \pi/2]$ is a convex body such that the followings hold. ^def-cap
> 
> 1. $p_K(\omega) = p_K(\pi/2) = 1$ and $p_K(\pi + \omega) = p_K(3\pi/2) = 0$.
> 2. $K$ is an intersection of closed half-planes with normal angles ([[c. Upper Bound A1/10. Notations and conventions/00. Preface#^def-half-plane]]) in $J_\omega \cup \{\pi + \omega, 3\pi/2\}$.